ING IM finalizes reorganization of asset management operations into internal multi-boutiques


ING IM has finalized a reorganization of its teams, begun in March this year. “We have abandoned organization by asses classes in favour of a system of teams centred around strategies, each in a separate ‘boutique,’ but integrated within the group,” explains Jan Straatman, CIO of ING IM, at a press conference in London. The 14 European teams are now in place, and their heads have been appointed, he adds, and a similar reorganization will be undertaken internationally in the near future. The various boutiques all have their head offices in the Netherlands, but local specialists will be based abroad, where local presence is indispensable. This multi-boutique structure will give asset management teams more freedom in equities management in terms of the investment process, which will allow them to generate more performance, and “each team will have its own goals to achieve,” says Straatman. “These multi-boutiques will function with quasi-entrepreneurial flexibility and liberty, without having the same operational risk, as they will be backed by the infrastructure and means of a large group,” says the chief investment officer. The various internal boutiques will also be able to rely on a global team of 30 equities and fixed income analysts. ING Investment Management (ING IM), which manages EUR400m worldwide, and which now includes the asset management activities of ING in a single unit alongside real estate asset management, will publish combined annual results from 2010. Within the group, ING will continue its internal reorganization program, which began in 2006, and while will eventually lead to a separation of banking and insurance activities, including asset management. “We are still aiming for a return to our roots, which would allow us to better respond to the needs of our clients,” says Michel van Eck, the new CEO for Europe since 23 November. The group’s total restructuring will be completed by the end of 2013, and “until then, we are analysing all possible options,” van Eck conlcludes.