Hedge funds: AIMA welcomes impact study commissioned by FSA


The international association of the hedge fund industry, AIMA (Alternative Investment Management Authority), has welcomes a decision this past weekend by the FSA (Financial Services Authority) to commission a study of the impact the planned hedge fund directive would have on the United Kingdom. The British financial market authority has asked the research firm CRA International to study the costs and benefits of the legislation, focusing on the impact of the project on investment portfolios, costs to companies and investors, on the functioning of the market and on systemic risk, and finally, to study the effects of the legislation on financing for small businesses and European competitiveness. The findings of the study will be presented by the end of the year. The Association favours a revision of the draft directive in its current form. Though it approves of some planned measures such as systematic reporting of appropriate data to national supervisory authorities, the Association argues that some areas of the planned legislation, such as those concerning leverage, depositories, and marketing, need to be revised and corrected to avoid counter-productive effects. The AIMA, which has already called on the European Commission to order a pan-European impact study, hopes that the FSA’s initiative will inspire the Commission to take that step. “We hope that the European Commission will follow suit on the pan-European level. It would be extraordinary if there were not an appropriate evaluation on the European level of the impact of a directive which could have very serious consequences.” Like the AIMA, the FSA, whose annual conference for asset management, to be held on 17 September in London, will be dedicated to the subject of the planned European directive, is said to be favourable to a revision of the Commission’s draft directive, which it considers too constraining for the hedge fund industry. The British government is concerned about the impact of the draft directive on the competitiveness of an industry which in European terms is largely centred in London. The United Kingdom’s efforts to produce a revised version of the text will be likely to provoke some debate in Europe. France, among others, is widely known to favour increased surveillance of the activities of hedge funds.