British government considers new corporate governance code


Sir David Walker was appointed by the British government this February to revise the country’s corporate governance regulations in the wake of the financial crisis, particularly in the banking sector. In his recommendations, presented on 16 July, Walker proposes substantial modifications to the functioning of boards of directors, with a strengthened role for non-executive directors in the processes of risk control and of determining pay scales. “These proposals aim to improve the professionalism and diligence of boards of directors in banking, by strengthening the importance of challenge on the board. If this means that boards will function in a less collegial manner than in the past, this will be a modest price to pay for improved governance,” Walker says in a statement. Among the 39 recommendations set out in the report is the idea of giving more power to risk committees; the chairmanship of this committee should be assigned to a non-executive. The committee would be in charge of examining and, if necessary, blocking, major transactions planned by the firm. The prerogatives of the remunerations committee could also be enlarged: the committee could consider all remunerations at a business and also oversee pay scales for operational directors who are not board members. Bonuses paid to operational directors at the top of the pay scale would be required to include a “significant” variable component. Non-executive members of the board, whose powers would be extended, would also spend more time at work: Walker suggests that their work time should be increased by as much as 50%. the report also proposes that management firms should be more concretely involved in businesses they invest in, and that in particular, they should divulge their voting policies under a “comply or explain” principle. The publication of the report marks the beginning of a consultation period which will extend until 1 October. Walker, who hopes to be able to present his final report in November 2009, suggests that the recommendations be integrated into the “Combined Code on corporate Governance,” which is currently under revision.