EFAMA and IMMFA propose a new classification of money market funds


The European Fund and Asset Management Association (EFAMA) and the Institutional Money Market Funds Association (IMMFA), which includes managers of AAA-rated money market funds, on 9 July published a European framework for the classification of money market funds. This is a highly sensitive subject, particularly in Paris, where the question continues to animate polemic, if not highly animated debate. “Money market funds, widely identified with the United States, have performed better in Europe. But in light of the questions they raise, it seems to us that the moment is opportune to clarify the situation. This is an important initiative for the credibility of the industry,” said Peter de Proft, chairman of EFAMA, in a telephone interview. The two associations were in agreement about the need to propose well-defined rules to clarify what may be referred to as a “money market fund.” The classification is based on a single, more robust category of money market funds, which is subdivided into two types, “short term” and “regular,” which are defined in such a way as to limit the risks that money market funds are exposed to, such as interest rate, credit and credit spread, and liquidity risks. The associations also propose that money market funds which do not meet the definitions “short term” or “regular” should be allowed to retain the label “money market fund” for a transitional period of three years. During this time, funds will need to be reclassified by national regulators into an “other” category. As of 30 June 2012, money market funds which still do not meet the proposed classification will no longer be considered money market funds. Of course, this is only a recommendation which the two associations hope will be taken up by all concerned parties, with modifications if necessary. With this in mind, proposals will be submitted to the Commission, the CESR, central banks, national regulators, and all ratings agencies.