Which will be the winning management firms after the crisis?


Newton Investment Management, an affiliate of BNY Mellon Asset Management, has published a white paper entitled “ The expected impact of all change on the asset management industry.” The report reveals that asset managers who will be able to provide credible solutions in terms of performance and not in terms of products will meet the objectives of their clients and will be the winning players in the post-financial crisis era. Helena Morrisey, CEO of Newton Investment Management, says “this white paper analyses the profound changes which are in store for asset managers as they adapt to the new environment.” the industry has evolved towards distribution of products, in which the credibility and success of a company have been generally measured by the volume of assets under management. However, notes Morrissey, “the poor performance of some big names in the sector, and the overall weakness of absolute returns, has led to a change in this trend. Now, the reputation and culture of a business will depend more on its ability to earn regular returns in a clear and transparent manner.” The study also claims that it is necessary to win back the confidence of clients, by offering them simple products that respond to their real needs, rather than ranges of complex “black box” financial instruments. The white paper predicts that asset managers with a high quality track record, solid process and overt and transparent risk management will be in high demand, and will attract the most interest from investors. The winning asset management firms will be the ones which are in a position to provide: Strong and regular performance of investments Organisations able to attract and retain the best investment professionals Clear brand image and strong conviction on principles Close relationships with clients, based on service Wide and effective distribution, balanced with an investment orientation Ability to function successfully in a much more strict regulatory environment Simple and transparent investment approaches Ability to successfully handle structural changes brought on by the transition from defined-benefit to defined-contribution pension schemes.