Europe - HGI kicks off spring cleaning of product range


Henderson Global Investors, led since the end of last year by its former CIO, Andrew Formica, follows a policy of actively adapting its product range to market conditions. Recently, the British management firm announced that it will be closing two sub-funds of its Horizon Sicav, including the Pan European Property Equities Alpha Plus Fund (EUR0.8bn), which was tactically positioned to enter at the low point of the market and profit from a rebound in real estate properties, which the market will apparently not deliver in the next few months.Similarly, the Global Financials Fund sub-fund was launched in late 2007, and was tactically aligned to the bottom of the market, and oriented to the recovery of financial sector shares. The fund will be closed on 1 June. It was not intensively promoted, and its assets as of the end of January totalled EUR2m, says Patricial Kaveh, director of development for France, Geneva and Monaco.The Strategic Yield Fund (EUR4m), for its part, has been reoriented to Europe, whereas it was previously focused on global and United States investments. Its high yield positioning is not meeting market expectations; the fund will therefore be closed.This housekeeping in the product range will also bring reorientations. For example, the Henderson Horizon Pan European Alpha Plus will on 1 April become the Pan European Alpha. The management team has recently been changed, and ?Plus? was let go as part of cost-saving measures. The product, which was a multi-strategy fund, will become a ?fundamental? product. The long/short sub-fund (30 long positions, 10-20 short positions), delivering portable alpha in a UCITS-III compliant vehicle, will be highly flexible, says Kaveh.The London offices of Henderson have also announced the launch of an offshore Luxembourg version of its Industries of the Future fund, which is not yet licensed for sale in France. The product, managed by Tim Dieppe, is intended for European and Asian investors.