France - SGAM/CAAM merger as a response to the crisis


In merging their asset management activities, Crédit Agricole and Société Générale are creating an asset management giant with EUR638bn in assets (data as of 30 September 2008). It will include all of Crédit Agricole Asset Management (CAAM) - including CPR AM and Casam ? and SGAM, excepting alternative management (as SGAM AI will be merged with Lyxor). The ensemble, whose name has not yet been determined, will be 70% owned by CA, which represents the majority of assets, with EUR460bn under management, and 30% controlled by SG, which accounts for the remainder, and TCW, its US affiliate. The two groups have pledged to retain their stakes for five years, after which time an IPO is planned (see Newsmanagers of 26 January 2009).The merger has largely been dictated by the current crisis, according to professionals, and negotiations are said to have begun in October. ?Two professions have been particularly hard-hit by the crisis and need to adapt: finance and investment banking, and asset management. We are thus anticipating this movement and are preparing for the situation at the end of the crisis,? explained George Pauget, CEO of Crédit Agricole, at a press conference to present the merger of the two entities.In practice, by combining their asset management operations, Crédit Agricole and Société Générale make no secret of the fact that they are planning to reduce their production costs. ?In general, in asset management, these costs are 20 basis points (bp). At Crédit Agricole AM, they are already 14. We would like to bring them down to about 10 bp,? Pauget continues.This naturally involves economies of scale. Synergies are projected to save EUR120m, before taxes, over three years. It may reasonably be expected that these will involve staff reductions, as the newly-created entity will have no less than 3,500 employees, excluding international joint ventures. But the management of CAAM and SGAM have remained discreet on this subject, indicating that layoffs will be undertaken in consultation with social partners. Funds will also be merged, a process which has already begun at CAAM. The management fund factory created by Crédit Agricole and Société Générale will supply the four networks of the two banks, Crédit Agricole, LCL, Société Générale and Crédit du Nord - and why not a fifth or sixth network? The model is likely to attract other mid-sized networks. Each of them will benefit from a dedicated structure which will serve as an interface with production teams.Though retail clients represent 70% of the new entity’s business, institutional investors, who represent 30% overall, will not be overlooked. A management unit, organised according to a multi-boutique model, will be wholly dedicated to them.