“SRI reporting should go beyond mere declarations”


p { margin-bottom: 0.08in; } Newsmanagers: The institution which you have directed since June 2008 was created by the terms of a law of 21 August 2003. Where are you in terms of assets?Philippe Desfossés: As of 31 October, according to figures which were approved by our board of directors on 29 November, we had assets of EUR9.6bn, compared with EUR8.2bn as of 31 December 2009. We will have about EUR10bn under management by the end of this year.Newsmanagers: What asset classes do you monitor?Philippe Desfossés: Currently, we are limited in our investments to equities and bonds. Legislation which would also allow us to enter real estate is currently under consideration by the Council of State. That would allow us to diversify our asset allocation. We still have no exposure to emerging markets, which represent 40% of global wealth, and we are also absent from the infrastructure sector. These are points which we are working on, and in terms of emerging markets, it should be possible to initially obtain indirect exposure, either by investing in a portfolio of shares in European businesses or OECD businesses more widely which are themselves highly involved in these markets.Newsmanagers: The ERAFP defined its “100% SRI” policy in late 2005. How has that been carried out?Philippe Desfossés: In this area, our Charter, which was set out by our board of directors, consists of five values and then broken down into a more detailed criteria checklist. For a long-term investor like us, it seems to us that best-in-class management is the most pertinent. We use it in a highly programmatic way. For each asset class and each sector of activity, we pay close attention to the environmental, social and governance (ESG) rating of each issuer.However, for the sake of our 4.6 million members, we cannot allow ourselves to undertake sectoral exclusion. We would do that in the name of what values? In fact, we may invest in anything which is recognized by France, or by treaties signed by France.Newsmanagers: What asset management firms does your institution rely on?Philippe Desfossés: We currently work with six management firms: BNP Paribas Asset Management, Amundi, Pictet and Robeco for European equities, Allianz Global Investors and State Street for international equities, and Amundi again for credit bonds. We are currently running a call for proposals to renew Euro zone equities management mandates. In general, we do not manage any assets directly, except Euro-denominated government bonds, which we manage internally.Newsmanagers: Are you satisfied with the reporting provided by these actors?Philippe Desfossés: For my part, I would like to see SRI reporting go beyond mere declarations. Ratings agencies would be inspired to find allies to go beyond reporting on paper, and to concretely look at what is happening. Maybe they would be interested to work more closely with insurers and reinsurers, who would be objective allies as their profession is by definition to identify and evaluate, and then place values on, risks that they agree to cover in a policy.