“Independent financial advisers are an important area of development for us”


p { margin-bottom: 0.08in; } Newsmanagers: Although the Meeschaert company is known for its discretion, can you briefly present your establishment to us? Cédric Meeschaert: For nearly 25 years, the Meeschaert group, which has about 200 people, about 40 of them outside France, has developed an activity which we have divided into three major parts. The first represents traditional private management. It includes clients with total financial assets of EUR300,000 to EUR3m, to whom we offer financial advising combined with mandated management and access to our range of funds. The second part is wealth management, which is limited to investors with total financial assets of EUR3m to EUR15m. Here, we work in partnership with banks or managers so that one third of the amounts placed with us are managed by Meeschart, and the remaining two thirds are placed at external establishments, after a call for offers, made on the basis of the needs of our clients. We select the establishment in association with each of them, if they want. Then, we oversee reporting and correct any potential imprecision, which may occur rather frequently. Lastly, we have family office activities, which are aimed at clients with over EUR15m. Here, we operate 100% through open artchitecture. Meeschaert Family Office manages no assets, as all financial wealth is in the hands of other establishments, of course except if our clients would like us to invest part of their capital in one or several of our funds. Newsmanagers: You also have international activities... Cédric Meeschaert: Yes, we also have a presence in the United States and Belgium. Our decision to expand outside France was the result of conversations with our expat clients about the desirability of returning to France. Our offices in New York and Brussels aim to help our French clients abroad rather than to acquire foreign clients. However, in the United States, we also target European institutional investors, via our stakes in companies like Solaris, which primarily selects shares in US and Canadian companies. A few months ago, we also signed a partnership with Triana Group to assist European SMBs in the United States. For us, this means identifying the most dynamic and innovative businesses in technology, life sciences and clean tech, and to offer European businesses a wide range of financing to develop in the US market. It’s a kind of incubation structure. Newsmanagers: What are your plans for your institution? Cédric Meeschaert: We are planning to continue our development, but at our own pace, without being propelled into it. We are also seeing a large number of possibilities, some of which are attractive, and we are not ruling out a possible external growth operation. Most of our clients are private investors. The population of independent financial advisors (IFAs) is for us a major area for growth. The weight of this market, I am convinced, will increase, and we need to strengthen our ties to it. We are positioned as a sort of “super IFA,” but we need to forge partnerships with this profession. We can provide them with expertise, and they can benefit from our IT structures, back office, and the quality of our reporting. For their part, they allow us to profit from their sales expertise.