“We are looking for a a partner”


p { margin-bottom: 0.08in; } Newsmanagers: How are things going commercially? Olivier Johanet: The big news is that we are going to get involved in private management via the Banque Martin Maurel, with whom we already have a partnership which we are going to extend. We have also visited more than 100 clients since December, particularly institutionals, funds of funds, retirement institutions, actors in the associate world, and insurers. We showed them three of our products: our diversified fund, managed in partnership with Diamond Bleu (EUR18m), our LFR Euro Développement Durable (EUR27m), and LFR Actions Solidaires. But we are facing a big difficulty now: even though they are interested in our approach, investors are reticent to enter our funds, largely due to questions of productivity, since they are too small. They think for reasons of their own that it is not possible for them to invest such small amounts. Newsmanagers: How are you addressing this issue of fund size? Olivier Johanet: To solve this problem, we are now looking for a partnership. The arrival of a shareholder would also make us better able to prepare for the future, knowing that I am now 56 years old. Newsmanagers: Do you have contacts in this area? Olivier Johanet: Yes, we are in contact with an institution in France, but also with foreign firms. Newsmanagers: Will a partnership be enough to attract clients? Olivier Johanet: Ten years ago, the mere fact of being a parter of a larger firm attracted clients. Now, it opens doors, but that isn’t enough. What matters is the seed money in the funds. Or else, a shareholder who enters the capital of a boutique needs to also invest in its commercial development. However, what doesn’t work is when a company buys a stake in a boutique and then asks its own sales people to sell funds from the affiliate: the sales people in general already have a lot to do to sell the house funds and may not have a free hand to deal with others. Newsmanagers: Does this mean that all small structures are unable to develop if they remain totally independent? Olivier Johanet: No, it’s not possible today. If you can’t line up EUR50m to EUR100m for a fund, it’s very difficult. And institutional investors need new managers to reduce the weight of the major firms, which are only getting bigger.