“We would like more comments on the investments by the fund manager”


p { margin-bottom: 0.08in; } Newsmanagers: How does Réunica manage assets, and how many managers do you work with?Francis Weber: Currently, we manage about EUR9bn, but this amount will fall by more than EUR1bn due to the deduction of the money necessary to meet the treasury needs of the AGIRC-ARRCO regimes. We outsource nearly all our assets, and we are even one of the few very large institutionals to outsource so much. Due to this fact, we maintain relations with 15 asset management firms, which manage dedicated funds for us. But we also invest in open-ended funds, so that in total we work with 100 managers. We award dedicated funds to large asset management firms but we also like to work with small boutiques which are often more nimble and specialised in a specific asset class.Newsmanagers: Do you rely a lot on foreign asset management firms?Francis Weber: We contract out assets to some of them. The number is rising, which goes hand in hand with diversification of our investments outside the Euro zone. They are mostly Swiss and Anglo-American firms.Newsmanagers: You oversaw the working group which put together the decalogue on reporting to the use of asset management firms, published in late September 2010. What are some of the recommendations of this document which you can take all the more to heart as CIO of Réunica?Francis Weber: I wanted to emphasize first of all that the quality of all reporting provided by asset management firms has improved considerably in recent years. That said, however, our largest issue remains the delay in communication of this reporting. And we insist very much on maximal transparency about the portfolio and all management fees, in addition to those which are described in the usual documentation. In other words, the real total expense ratio.Newsmanagers: Do you also have some requirements about management commentaries?Francis Weber: Yes. We don’t really know what to do with reviews of the macroeconomic situation, which make up a large part of commentaries. We are perfectly capable of having an opinion about that ourselves. However, we would like more commentary focused on the investments undertaken by the fund manager. Newsmanagers: How does Réunica manage assets, and how many managers do you work with?Francis Weber: Currently, we manage about EUR9bn, but this amount will fall by more than EUR1bn due to the deduction of the money necessary to meet the treasury needs of the AGIRC-ARRCO regimes. We outsource nearly all our assets, and we are even one of the few very large institutionals to outsource so much. Due to this fact, we maintain relations with 15 asset management firms, which manage dedicated funds for us. But we also invest in open-ended funds, so that in total we work with 100 managers. We award dedicated funds to large asset management firms but we also like to work with small boutiques which are often more nimble and specialised in a specific asset class.Newsmanagers: Do you rely a lot on foreign asset management firms?Francis Weber: We contract out assets to some of them. The number is rising, which goes hand in hand with diversification of our investments outside the Euro zone. They are mostly Swiss and Anglo-American firms.Newsmanagers: You oversaw the working group which put together the decalogue on reporting to the use of asset management firms, published in late September 2010. What are some of the recommendations of this document which you can take all the more to heart as CIO of Réunica?Francis Weber: I wanted to emphasize first of all that the quality of all reporting provided by asset management firms has improved considerably in recent years. That said, however, our largest issue remains the delay in communication of this reporting. And we insist very much on maximal transparency about the portfolio and all management fees, in addition to those which are described in the usual documentation. In other words, the real total expense ratio.Newsmanagers: Do you also have some requirements about management commentaries?Francis Weber: Yes. We don’t really know what to do with reviews of the macroeconomic situation, which make up a large part of commentaries. We are perfectly capable of having an opinion about that ourselves. However, we would like more commentary focused on the investments undertaken by the fund manager.