Asset managers will have to think beyond their domestic boundaries


The shift of power towards emerging markets, coupled with lower economic growth, increasing globalisation and the changing scope of banks will require European asset managers to think beyond their domestic boundaries, mainstream asset classes and traditional fund management practices, writes Fitch Ratings in a new report*. As emerging markets and Asia offer higher growth opportunities, asset managers need to expand their investment universe toward these regions. This implies not only increasing coverage and investments in these regions, but managing global equities or global credit funds, says the rating agency. Similarly, the internationalisation of the client base calls for the international expansion of distribution and client servicing. As regards the scope of their activities, some asset managers need to embrace radical evolution. For instance, a fixed income manager may need to move into equities, or an equity player may consider a transition into balanced products… But asset managers may also have an opportunity to expand their roles in areas where banks have traditionally been more active, like direct lending activities or proprietary trading business. Separately, asset allocation in the traditional sense — domestic asset classes, monthly portfolio rebalancing — may not be well suited to new market conditions. Increased volatility, correlation, changing liquidity and technical factors call for greater reactivity and diversification (by geography and asset class), says Fitch Ratings. The way in which asset allocation decisions are implemented is also potentially subject to change. First and foremost, cash has become an asset in its own right in investors’ portfolios. Calibrating and quickly adjusting the overall portfolio risk has become one of the most important investment decisions, which can be implemented through cash, derivatives, general overlays or dynamic tactical allocation bucket, explains the report. Finally, the interdependence of markets and asset classes, and the importance of technical factors, means research sources must be improved; for example merging credit and equity research teams or creating an analyst function focused on political/fiscal topics. In addition, the ability to incorporate technical/behavioural factors into research inputs is going to be a key differentiating factor between managers, concludes Fitch.