CPR AM launches an ageing population fund and an SRI fund


CPR Asset Management, an affiliate of Amundi better known for its quantitative management, has launched two conviction-oriented equities funds, one of which is themed on ageing populations, and one on SRI (socially responsible investment). The two products, created in December 2009, received licences from the French market regulator AMF (Autorité des marchés financiers) in early April, and may now be released for sale in France. The first of the two funds, CPR Silver Age, aims to “outperform the European equities markets on the long term by investing in European companies that benefit from an ageing population,” CPR AM states. The investment process of the fund combines a top down approach and with a bottom up one. In an initial stage, the asset management team determines which sectors benefit from the demographic trend, on the basis of their past and projected future growth. On the basis of this sector allocation, shares are selected and the portfolio is constructed. The second fund, CPR Progrès Durable Europe, aims to ride the wave of popularity for SRI funds. It it not a “best in class” product, as it is investing not only in the best businesses in environmental, social and governance (ESG) areas, but also in companies which are making progress in this area. This method is called “best effort” by Cyrille Collet, head of equities management at CPR AM. Concretely, the managers of the fund, Nicolas Picard and Michaël Sourp, will initially select and retain shares in European companies with positive ratings (on a scale of -2 to +2) from Ideam Asset Management, an affiliate of Amundi dedicated to socially responsible investment. Of the 750 eligible shares, the co-managers will focus on the ones which have seen an increase in their ratings in the past 12 to 18 months. The two funds, with a total of EUR15m currently for the Silver Age fund and EUR25m for Progrès Durable Europe, will be aimed at private banking clients, funds of funds, and potentially institutionals.