FSA publishes new rules for financial product fees


The British financial market regulatory agency FSA (Financial Services Authority) on 26 March published new rules which require financial advisers or providers of retail investment products to state in advance the amount to be charged in fees for services rendered, and not to conceal the cost of advising in the price of the product. The rules, which will apply from 2012, are based on the findings of a study of British retail investment (Retail Distribution Review, or RDR). The new rules aim to end bias in financial advising due to commissions paid to financial advisers, as a product which paid a higher commission was inevitably promoted more and more often sold by the adviser who earns the commission. The new rules do not allow commissions to be paid to financial advisers by providers of products. A statement from the FSA says that it is crucially necessary to restore the confidence of retail clients in the financial product market, which will gain increased professionalism and improved transparency of costs. At the same time as it published the new rules, the FSA has launched a consultation, which will remain open until 26 May, on distribution platforms for financial products. The British management association IMA immediately responded to the FSA’s initiatives, calling them useful, but also incomplete. “In particular, we would like to better understand how the FSA envisions the practical functioning of the asset management sector and how the adviser would be paid,” says Julie Patterson, Director of Authorised Funds & Tax at the professional association. The IMA also claims that in the wake of decisions to regulate platforms more strictly, the FSA would be well advised to revise the rules published on 26 March. The association also says that the category of investment products should also include all structured products, but that the definition at present is too restrictive. In other words, the FSA may have written an important chapter, but there are still some revisions to be made.