“We want to win market share off our competitors rather than maintain our own”


Newsmanagers: Recently, you recruited a head of sales and announced major initiatives for your asset management firm. Why the change? Xavier Roulet: We are seeing an increasingly competitive environment, and in this environment, we have decided to be more present from a sales point of view in the independent financial adviser (IFA) and institutional markets. With assets under management of EUR850m, we think of ourselves as one of the smallest of the large asset management firms rather than as one of the biggest of the small ones. Now, we want to win market share off our competitors rather than maintaining our own. We don’t have wild ambitions in the IFA market. We are not looking to triple our assets, but we want to create some momentum, first and foremost. That will involve road shows, but selectively, and references which we will take a step further, where we might not have done before. We have also noted that our private assets under mandated management are stabler than our mutual fund assets. We have also realised that there is not much investment going this way, and recruited a senior private banker. We have opened an office in Grenoble, which comes as an addition to our office in Aix-en-Provence. Newsmanagers: You have new ambitions in France. Are you planning to focus your development exclusively on this country? Xavier Roulet: No, we’re not going to neglect Europe. A TPM is going to help us to develop in Switzerland, where multi-management is well-ingrained. Eventually, we may recruit one or two people to strengthen our sales presence. Newsmanagers: Do you see your product range as adapted to the world of IFAs? You don’t have any wealth management funds of funds, for example. Xavier Roulet: Products which are labelled “wealth” are not our style! In order to develop a fund of this type, anyway, you need a track record. We have opted to develop a wider range. The result is that one quarter of our assets are invested in bond products. And this proportion will increase as we have recently launched a bond fund maturing in 2015. It invests in securities that deliver unusually high fixed revenues, due to the recent changes in corporate spreads. In equities, we naturally have a dynamic mutual fund range, but also a defensive equities fund, Sélection Action Rendement International, which has been holding out remarkably well. Since the beginning of the year, it has made nearly 1%. Newsmanagers: No emerging markets fund in your range? Xavier Roulet: I’m not sure that emerging market funds will continue to perform as well as we expect in some places, due to the slowdown in the global economy and weakening currencies which are not hedged. Corporate governance in these countries also leaves much to be desired. I think it is wiser to profit from the good health of emerging markets by investing in businesses in OECD countries which have a strong presence in these countries. That’s a bias which the Sélection Action Rendement International has already adopted, and is invested in three equal parts in Europe, emerging markets and the United States.