Investors turn to US equities


Global investors are looking to U.S. equities as they prepare themselves for a year of low growth and low inflation in 2012, according to the BofA Merrill Lynch Survey of Fund Managers for December, undertaken from 2 to 8 December, and dovering a total of 255 panelists representing with USD762bn of assets under management. Almost two thirds of the panel, up from 52% in November, predict 2012 will be a year of below-trend growth and below-trend inflation. Investors are responding to the weak outlook with a preference for U.S. and Emerging Market equities while the negative stance towards the eurozone hardens. A record number, a net 72 percent, name the eurozone as having the least favorable outlook for corporate profits. However, one allocator in two (up from a net 47% in November) thinks that the outlook for corporate profits is the most favorable in the U.S. A net 8 percent of asset allocators are overweight equities this month, compared with a net 5 percent underweight in November. But the panel only increased equity positions in one region – the U.S. Global investors are split over the future of the euro and the question about whether the eurozone can remain intact. Nearly half of the panel (48 percent) believes that no member state will exit the euro in 2012 or the foreseeable future. Nearly a quarter of the panel of 190 institutional investors (24 percent), expect one of the 17 member states to leave the euro in the first half of 2012. In total, 45 percent expect a member to depart in the foreseeable future, with 7 percent undecided. Liquidity and inflation indicators are near their 2009 levels. Investors say that liquidity conditions have deteriorated significantly in the past month to reach their worst level since April 2009. Meanwhile, concerns about inflation have eased to levels not seen since 2009. The proportion of the panel predicting a fall in inflation fell to a net 34 percent in December, down 2 percentage points since November and the lowest reading since March 2009. For the first time since March 2009, a majority (a net 6 percent) believes that global monetary policy should be more stimulative. At the depth of the crisis more than a net 60 percent called for monetary stimulus.