“We don’t need to reduce our costs significantly”


Newsmanagers: In the current environment, do you need to reduce costs? Massimo Tosato: In the first nine months of the year, and especially in the past quarter, our activities have done well despite the difficult markets. We took in GBP5.1bn in assets over that period. Pre-tax profits in the first nine months of the year have increased to GBP317.3m, compared with GBP282.7m in the corresponding period of 2010. We also have a solid balance sheet, with GBP2bn in liquid assets. We therefore don’t need to significantly reduce our costs. However, in light of the highly uncertain and difficult conditions, we have decided to contain them. But that should not prevent us from making additions in some key areas, if we get hold of the appropriate quality talent. Newsmanagers: Could you make acquisitions? Massimo Tosato: Schroders has never had a strong culture of acquisitions. We prefer organic growth and partnerships. And, when we have made small acquisitions, that has always been with an eye to adding particular talents or expertise. That is the approach we prefer. Of course we watch what is happening around us. But we are truly prudent about acquisitions. Newsmanagers: Are there geographical regions or asset classes which you are still missing at Schroders, despite the strategy of diversification you have followed in recent years? Massimo Tosato: From a geographical standpoint, there are three markets which it is thought will be important in the coming years, where we are not yet present commercially, but where we would like to play a role: India, Turkey and Russia. In India, regulations are currently holding us back from opening an office. But we may yet begin to develop there, by strengthening our investment capacity. In Turkey, the market is still small, but promising. In Russia, we can serve clients from Germany for the moment. In terms of asset classes, we have adequate capacity everywhere, except perhaps in infrastructure. Newsmanagers: What products are you planning to foreground now? Massimo Tosato: Currently, investors are looking for products that manage risk for them, thus absolute return or total return products. Newsmanagers: Do you think that the asset management sector will be dominated by the major global players? Massimo Tosato: I don’t think so. Particularly beyond a certain size, capacity problems emerge. Personally, I would not at qll like to have EUR2trn or EUR3trn under management. Our ambition is to be a quality actor in each asset class in which we are present. But that doesn’t boil down to a number!