Synthetic ETFs: Lyxor AM responds to criticisms


Lyxor AM has responded to recent criticisms of synthetic replication ETFs. Its argument takes two forms. The first is to demonstrate that the asset management firm’s synthetic replication ETFs are “the most transparent in the world,” pointing out that for every ETF from the management firm, assets held are detailed daily on the firm’s website, along with counterparties and the swap used in the construction of the product.Security is also made a high priority, in response to investor concerns. At a recent Lyxor ETF Investor Day, the firm pointed out that all the swaps were managed “back to back” with the parent company, Société Générale, regardless of the ultimate counterparty. In other words, for all Lyxor ETFs, the counterparty risk related to swaps, which is limited by law to a maximum of 10% of the fund’s assets, is assumed by SocGen.Lyxor AM also insists that it undertakes a daily rebalancing of swaps to 0%, de facto cancelling out the risk of loss in case of bankruptcy of the counterparty bank. “And this is our constant modus operandi,” says Alain Dubois.The second arm of Lyxor AM’s argument is to claim that direct competition – physical replication funds – do not present equivalent transparency, though they have a better image with investors. “Some information about these ETFs is not published,” the Lyxor chairman claims, “particularly about establishments to whom the securities are lent, and on returns the manager mades from its ‘lending agent,’ which are not included in the total costs laid out in the Key Investor Information Document (KIID).” The counterparty risks for investors are identical for a synthetic replication ETF and a physical replication ETF which lends its securities. “It’s the same thing with different contracts,” Lyxor AM continues. “With one exception,” Dubois notes: “tracking error between the ETF fund and its benchmark index. Due to the workings of physical replication, the risk of tracking error is higher, and in this case, the risk is assumed by the investor.”