BlackRock calls for a clear labeling of ETFs


BlackRock, the global leader in ETFs with its iShares brand, has issued a call for greater transparency in the ETF market, and for consistent regulation, at a time when this activity is under the eye of regulators. The US management firm has made five more presice proposals for regulations and market reforms. Firstly, BlackRock calls for a clear labeling of product structure and investment objectives. "“ETF” has become a blanket term describing many products that have a wide range of different structures. This has led to confusion among investors. Investors should know what they are buying and what a product’s investment objectives are.This can be achieved by establishing a global standard classification system with clear labels to clarify the differences between products,» the firm explains.Another recommendation is frequent and timely disclosure of all holdings and exposures . “Investors also need to understand what the product holds. To that end, sponsors should be required to disclose a clear picture of what the product holds and any other financial exposures it has,” BlackRock comments.The asset management firm also calls for clear standards for diversifying counterparties and quality of collateral loans. “In addition to disclosure, standards should be established regarding counterparty exposure and the quality of collateral posted by counterparties.”Fourth, BlackRock would like to see disclosure of all fees and costs aid, including those to counterparties . “Investors should have complete clarity regarding all the costs and revenues associated with any fund they buy, so they can clearly establish the total cost of ownership. Thus, in addition to clearly stating the management fee paid by the fund to the sponsor, the disclosure should include any costs or fees that affect the investors’ holdings, including those paid to companies related to the fund provider such as swap counterparties and securities lending participants”.Lastly, the asset management firm recommends universal trade reporting for all equity trades, including ETFs.