“We are part of the real economy”


Newsmanagers: How did you survive the recent market turbulence? Romain Burnand: the year 2011 started well. We topped EUR1bn in assets under management in March this year. Inflows, which totalled more than EUR200m in first half, fell sharply in summer. As of the end of August, assets under management totalled EUR994m. Currently, subscriptions have fallen off, but we are also seeing a very low level of redemptions. Newsmanagers: How are your clients distributed over segments? Romain Burnand: Since the creation of the firm in 2003, our clients have been very stable. About 50% of our clients are institutional and 50% retail. Four years ago, we decided to diversify into IFAs, and at that time we recruited a salesperson who began to work on this new growth sector in 2008. Newsmanagers: Has your strategy developed since then? Romain Burnand: As I was saying, our decision on independent financial advisers corresponds to a desire for diversification first and foremost. We are not considering growing. The level of assets is not an issue for us. We have adequate size. And our strategy is still the same: to dedicate most of our efforts to the performance of the funds we manage. We have performance, not inflow, objectives. And we manage only four funds: two traditional equity funds, one micro fund, Moneta Micro Entreprises (EUR155m), one French equity fund investing in all cap sizes, Moneta Multi Caps (EUR715m), and two European long/short equity funds, Totem Fund (EUR37m) and Moneta Long/Short (EUR56m). Newsmanagers: Then you have no plans to develop, even though you show good results? Romain Burnand: No, no plans of this type. We have only one profession, managing equity mutual funds, and we have no captive clients or private management. We are an independent boutique and plan to remain so. Everything which is not part of our core profession, such as IT, accounting, and internal controlling, we outsource. Our culture is one of difference. Our main challenge is to continue to manage the existing funds well. With this in mind, we spend a lot of time seeking to understand the companies we invest in well. Newsmanagers: What types of businesses do you look for? Romain Burnand: We seek out good companies which are having a temporary issue, and which are thus undervalued, but in which we estimate that the fundamentals are healthy. From this point of view, we are more value and contrarian. We have developed our own valuation methods, and that is where the driver of our process really is. Newsmanagers: Are you attentive of sustainable development issues? Romain Burnand: Yes, we apply an SRI filter, but largely from a governance angle, for example, to verify that the interests of various participants in the firm are aligned. And I can assure you that in the midcaps sub-fund, examination of corporate governance is a highly effective filter which can be particularly helpful in preventing serious mistakes. We are not activist in the sense that we do not become shareholders in order to seek to change the strategy of a firm. But we act when an operation appears to run counter to the interests of our shareholders, as for example in the case of the planned Colony takeover of Buffalo Grill in March 2006, which the AMF ultimately barred. Newsmanagers: What do you think of the growth of ETFs, as an equity management firm? Romain Burnand: The more that index-based management develops, the harder it will be for active managers to outperform the indices. ETFs have a cyclical bias, and on that basis we can take advantage of the entries and exits of businesses from indices, which will have all the more impact as index-based management increases in volume. This management has its place, and ETFs are good rivals for us. However, we do not at all have the same approach as ETF providers. We invest in companies and we may also participate in financing their activities. The funds which we manage contributed EUR100m to capital increases at businesses of all sizes, including many mid-sized businesses. We are part of the real economy. Newsmanagers: You are a stock-picker more than ever? Romain Burnand: And we are glad to be called that. In the context of permanent crisis that we are now in, we have an advan tage because we know 100 companies in which we might invest very well, which if need be allows us to better adopt positions and to seek to profit from the incoherent evolutions of the market.