Bank remains preferred interlocutor for European investors


In 2011, banks remain the top partner for European savings investors seeking to purchase financial products and services, according to a Fidelity annual survey of European and French investor confidence. This pre-eminence appears as a sign of the current times, as investors appear to prefer the “known” and “reassuring” in financial products as well as partners. Among the factors predictive of stability and loyalty, long-term relationships are the number 1 motive cited, mentioned 37% of those who say that they have reasons to remain loyal to their providers, followed by quality of advising (35%). Although the study finds that 68% of Europeans have subscribed to a financial product in the past 12 months via a bank, in France the propensity is considerably higher, as 78% of investors preferred their bank as interlocutor. Compared with 2010, the European average is down by 6 points (to 68% from 74%), while French investors have remained at the same level (78%). It is interesting to note that independent financial advisers are the second-favourite interlocutor in 7 out of 14 countries, ahead of insurers, and after banks. 15% of more autonomous investors prefer online brokers. Beyond stability and fidelity, the study also reveals some fragility. The confidence of European savings investors in their financial intermediaries overall has been considerably shaken in 2011. Nearly one third (31%) say they have less confidence in their financial intermediary since the crisis in 2008, while 33% say so in France. Aside from Poland, all countries show a decline in confidence (averaging 11 points more respondents than those who say that they have more confidence). In addition to the quality of advising which savings investors find may not be of the highest quality in the current environment, a lack of reactiveness (the top criterion at 25%) and poor listening skills (the last criterion, with 22%) are also mentioned. In general, the distributor appears to have less influence in investment decisions. 45% of European investors say that their bank or insurer has some influence over their choices, while the study finds that 53% feel this way in France. Financial advisers are in distant second place (16%), followed by provider websites (12%) and family and friends (8%). However, one reassuring finding is that 47% of Europeans and 48% of French investors say they have good reasons to stay with their financial intermediary, and no reasons to change. 43% (and 38% in France) say they also have reasons to change, while only 10% (and 14% in France) have more reasons to leave their financial intermediary than to remain with them. It is high fee levels (for 41% in Europe and 37% in France) and quality of advising (30%) which would lead them to change (see article in today’s Newsmanagers).