“We haven’t learned the lessons of the crisis of 2008”


Newsmanagers: The crisis of 2008 appears to have boosted socially responsible investment by highlighting the importance of extra-financial criteria. Will the new turbulence which we are witnessing today accelerate that trend?Anne-Catherine Husson-Traore: The new crisis certainly shows us that we haven’t learned the lessons of 2008! It is a shame that so many of us thought it would bring a great boom in SRI, and a return to fundamentals. But there has been a lot of talk, and those who have actually made the move have been fewer and further between. We have seen some conversions of funds, for example. But there hasn’t been much profound questioning by asset owners, which is the root of the problem. Finance has considerable weight in the economy, and SRI is a means to help it to measure the real consequences of its investment choices. But it remains marginal because that fundamental debate hasn’t taken place.Overall, the crisis in August is only the consequence of the fact that there has been no adequate treatment of a system which is gravely ill. Newsmanagers: You paint a rather dark picture... Anne-Catherine Husson-Traore: Certainly. But I am not totally discouraged. There are still positive things happening here and there, particularly in private equity. However, to go beyond those, we need a global banking personality to spread the SRI message. Or we need regulatory measures. That would also require that investors pay a higher price for extra-financial ratings, that asset management firms dedicate an increasing amount of resources to SRI, and that businesses publish relevant and reliable extra-finaincial data. But right now, there is a lot more short-term thinking and budget reduction. Newsmanagers: What do you think of the integration of ESG criteria into mainstream asset management? Anne-Catherine Husson-Traore: This is positive, since that allows to spread a general SRI culture in the finance industry. But if that doesn’t ultimately influence investment decisions, it results in a kind of schizophrenia. For SRI to have an influence on businesses and to develop, it needs to be combined with best-in-class, normative exclusion and shareholder engagement. Newsmanagers: ESG criteria are spreading to other asset classes. Is that credible? Anne-Catherine Husson-Traore: Private equity is an ideal channel, since investors are genuinely interested in the fundamentals of businesses. The head of KKR has said that the future of the industry will lie in taking ESG criteria into account. Things are happening in real estate and infrastructure too. For corporate bonds, the integration of ESG criteria is working well. For sovereign bonds, however, there is a lot of debate … But the question of government debt gas measurable ESG consequences. The more we ask governments to cut their spending, the more a country is at risk of social destabilisation, which is itself a source of financial disaster: it’s a vicious circle.