“In Europe, valuations and returns of equities are highly attractive”


Newsmanagers: In your opinion, what current events could have a positive impact on the global economy? Bernard Aybran: First of all, note that economists were not talking about a double-dip recession before this summer. Now, they are talking about it, but mostly claiming that they don’t believe it will happen. To answer your question, honestly, we have to admit that a new round of quantitative easing in the United States, or a lowering of interest rates by a major central bank, either the Fed or the ECB, would certainly be appreciated by the markets, but it is likely that these moves would have very little impact on household consumer spending. Political decisions appear to be getting made on the basis of what is happening on the markets, and there is no clear sustained signal there to be interpreted. In very concrete terms, in the short term, the most likely source of a swell on the markets could be the release of some positive statistics, for example, about the variation in stock levels in Germany. Newsmanagers: In terms of asset classes, due to the size of the correction on equities markets this summer, has there been collateral damage in some areas, and inversely, assets which benefited? Bernard Aybran: Naturally, with the exception of equities markets, high yield bond markets took a very hard and brutal fall, while the default rate for this asset class is very low, and average returns are about 9%. Corporate bonds were not spared either, nor inflation-linked bonds. On the other hand, emerging markets debt, mostly including government debt, but also corporate debt, has performed well. And for our part, we also manage an allocation fund – Invesco Balanced-Risk Allocation Fund – which, being composed of highly liquid assets such as Bunds, Gilts, the S&P and gold, and uses quantitative management with risk pockets, is doing very well. Since the beginning of the year (as of 25 August), the fund has gained 10.2%, and between July and August, it earned returns of 7%. Newsmanagers: And what strategy are you following now? Bernard Aybran: Currently, we are reconstituting our positions on euro zone equities markets via futures on the Eurostoxx 50 index. We are working on the assumption that the fall on the equities markets in August, in a single month, was too large. The market is going to have to rebound. And in Europe, valuations are now attractive, and returns have mechanically become highly attractive. In the past few weeks, we have also swapped out the “global” managers from our multi-management portfolios, and replaced them with managers who have a small and midcaps bias. We chose them not only because those managers have a presence on the internal European market, which is preferable to large caps with a large global exposure, but also because they were being punished unjustly. The indices also poorly reflect the performance of some of them. We have also strengthened our positions on high yield bonds, since we think that equities offer more opportunities due to the fall in valuations. Lastly, in bonds, due to the construction of bond indices, which are composed mostly of major issuers of government bonds such as Italy, the search for security leads us counterintuitively to subscribe to an opposite product. For some time, we have been subscribed to contracts on German bonds (Bunds).