British pension funds on the cutting edge in sustainable development


The UK Sustainable Investment Forum (UKSIF) on 2 September published its third report on the treatment of sustainable development issued by British pension funds, entitled “Responsible Business: Sustainable Pension 2011.” Two years after the publication of the last report, the current study finds that pension funds are continuing to deepen their practices in sustainable development. Not only interest in sustainable development, but also participation by pension funds cpvered by the study in sustainable development has increased to one in five, from one in eight two years ago. Sustainable investment now applies to a wider range of asset classes. Private equity, bonds and real estate have increased their use of sustainable development policies compared with 2009. Nearly one third of funds use specialised mandates to deploy their sustainable investment policies. This percentage has doubled since 2009, the report points out. These examples of improvement, which come in a wider context of improved frameworks for sustainable investment practices, and the publication of the Stewardship Code, are all positive signs which should not obscure the fact that the majority of pension funds still need to make the first move to set up sustainable investment practices that may effectively respond to the challenges presented by ESG issues. The report lays out a series of recommendations which it qualifies as urgent, including the governance of sustainable development, which would require the major funds to have at least one expert on sustainable development questions, transparency for the strategies put into use, signing the United Nations Principles for Responsible Investment, and integrating sustainable investment into negotiations on risk transfers. Meanwhile, three funds have already achieved excellence: the BT Pension Scheme, the Co-operative Pension Scheme (PACE), and F&C Asset Management Ltd. Pension Plan. Only one fund reached this level in the previous two editions of the study.