Funds: development opportunities differ greatly from one country to the other


In 2010, European fund assets under management (AUM) looked healthier than they did in 2008 and 2009, with EUR5.2tn, according to a new survey. But they have not recovered to pre-crisis levels.Moreover, in September 2010, 66.7% of the European mutual fund assets under management were captive, according to Cerulli, which has surveyed the 30 most prominent cross border fund managers in Europe. Even if this share is going down from the 2008 level (71.4%), it remains high.But Europe’s retail markets must be studied in context, and pan-European averages should be treated with caution. And the development opportunities differ from one country to another.For Cerulli, Italy remains one of Europe’s key markets for international funds and third-party provision, but assets and flows have yet to recover their former vigor. «Yet international and cross-border players are looked upon favorably by institutional and retail investors. Big banks still dominate but will call in outsiders for specialist asset classes and portfolios», according to the research. Funds of funds and segregated wraps were the channel of choice until five years ago; but MiFID (Markets in Financial Instruments Directive) implementation, poor performance, and a lack of confidence have reduced their appeal of late.In Spain, like its banking system, the distribution channels face upheaval. The number of distributors is being reduced as mergers are forced through, which may actually be good news for third-party groups. But investors need a lot of convincing before they rush back to mutual funds, warns Cerulli.Further North, German retail investors are under-diversified, which is for third-party fund providers. Private banks, IFAs, and funds of funds present the best opportunityfor third-party fund access, according to Cerulli. The United Kingdom for its part is leading the way in banning commissions from fund sales in the key IFA channel, which has several consequences. «Advisors must cut costs and slim unprofitable client bases to survive. They are outsourcing fund selection andusing platforms to ease the administrative burden and strip costs out of new business models. Thousands ofadvisors may quit the business. Others will concentrate on high-net-worth clients with GBP100,000 or more in investable assets. That will boost the direct to consumer (D2C) channel, which is primarily online», says the survey.Finally, in France, «captive asset managers are not just fat, they are successful too», notes Cerulli. They are taking their funds to the wider European market and Asian territories. On home ground, they are not letting go of their stranglehold on distribution. If the independent financial advisor (IFA) channel could get its act together and speakwith one voice, it could capture a decent marketshare.