Bill Miller (Legg Mason) critical of S&amp;P ratings decision


The downgrading by Standard & Poor’s of the credit rating of the United States from AAA to AA+ on August 5th was «precipitous, wrong, and dangerous», according to Bill Miller, the renowned manager of Legg Mason Capital Management. «At best, S&P showed a stunning ignorance and complete disregard for the potential consequences of its actions on a fragile global financial system. S&P chose to take this action after the worst week in US equity markets since 2008, a week which not only saw stocks fall sharply, but which also witnessed a dangerous escalation in the ongoing European debt crisis with spreads widening to post-Euro records in systemically-important countries such as Italy and Spain amid general political paralysis», he writes in a 3 pages note released on Monday. First, for Bill Miller, «there was no need for S&P to rush to judgment just days after a bruising political battle had secured a bipartisan agreement to raise the debt ceiling through the next election cycle and which initiated a process to begin to cut spending and address the nation’s long term fiscal imbalances.and should have counted for, not against, the US’s AAA rating, as Moody’s correctly opined». According to him, «it is perfectly clear S&P either did not consider or did not care what the consequences of this hasty and rash decision might be.Secondly, there are at least three reasons why Bill Miller thinks S&P was wrong to downgrade. «First, it is incredible that S&P should think the US is less creditworthy on a short or long term basis now than it was two weeks ago, when an agreement to raise the debt ceiling had not been reached, both parties appeared intransigent, and contingency plans were being considered including prioritizing payments or even declaring the debt ceiling null and void under Section 4 or the 14th Amendment». Second, Bill Miller thinks that S&P apparently gave little or no weight, or certainly insufficient weight, to the unique role the United States plays in the global economy. «The United States is the largest, most productive economy in the world and the dollar remains the global reserve currency», he says. Third, the market says S&P is wrong, according to Bill Miller. «The US enjoys among the lowest interest rates in its history coincident with the highest deficits and a daunting long term fiscal outlook. Yet when investors in a highly uncertain world are looking for safe assets, they invest in US Treasuries».Perhaps most worrisome, S&P’s actions pose unpredictable and dangerous risks to the global economy. «At this point S&P has managed to create what Keynes called irreducible uncertainty: we just have no idea what the consequences may be of S&P deciding that the risk-free assets issued by the country that occupies a unique place in the global economy may not be risk free after all», Bill Miller writes. «One consequence we can all hope for is that Congress ends the oligopoly of Nationally Recognized Statistical Ratings Agencies (NRSRO) before they contribute to or ignite another financial crisis», he concludes.