Asset management at Credit Suisse announces stable assets under management


The Asset Management division of Credit Suisse earned pre-tax profits of CHF202m in second quarter 2011, an increase of CHF180m compared with second quarter 2010, and of Chf30m compared with first quarter 2011. All revenues based on commissions rose 9% compared with second quarter 2010, “despite a 12% decline in management commissions to CHF313m, reflecting the impact of currency conversions and spin-offs and sales of activities which are not part of base activities,” a statement says. Commissions on placements, transactions and other operations increased 30%, largely due to an increase in private equity placement commissions, which was partly offset by a decline in real estate transaction commissions. Performance commissions and incentives were up by CHF57m, due to considerably higher performance commissions for Hedging-Griffo and incentives on private equity gains realised. Earnings from equities investments increased 57%, reflecting primarily higher revenues from investments in single manager hedge funds and diversified strategies. Gains from investments totalled CHF156m, an increase of CHF113m compared with second quarter 2010, including gains both realised and not realised from private equity investments. The Asset Management division posted net subscriptions of CHF4bn, including CHF2.8bn in traditional investments, largely for multi-asset class solutions, and of CHF1.5bn for alternative investments, based on capital inflows to real estate, commodities, and exchange-traded funds (ETF). Compared with second quarter 2010, assets under management have remained stable, as “unfavourable movements related to currencies were mostly offset by inflows of new capital and positive performance of the markets,” Credit Suisse says. The Private Banking division generated a net inflow of CHF11.5bn. Wealth Management Clients has posted inflows from highly diverse sources, two thirds of them international, Credit Suisse notes. Compared with the end of second quarter 2010, assets under management are down 0.7% “while strong inflows of new capital and favourable movements on equities and bond markets were neutralised by unfavourable movements on currencies, largely due to the depreciation of the US dollar and the euro against the Swiss franc,” the statement says.