Fund Forum International special: new EFAMA president lays out his plans


The investor is at the centre of the vision of the new president of the European investment fund association EFAMA, Claude Kremer, elected for a two-year term a few days ago. “All the measures I have proposed have the investor as their leitmotif, and they continue the work undertaken by my predecessor, Jaen-Baptiste de Franssu,” he says in an interview with Newsmanagers at the Fond Forum International, now being held in Monaco.Kremer’s five priorities have now been approved by members, and will now be formulated in a concrete action plan. The new EFAMA president tells Newsmanagers about each of them in detail.The first is to favour long-term savings. In order to promote this type of savings, investor education will have an important role to play, and that is the second priority for the EFAMA president. “We would like to work with other associations in this area, particularly with consumer groups.” More concretely, Kremer advances the idea of a day when journalists and distributors would be shown all the initiatives which exist in various countries for investor education.The third area of priority is not least important: supporting measures which favour the asset management industry. This will mean making the voice of the industry heard in the elaboration of various regulations that concern it: UCITS 4, UCITS 5, the AIFM directive, PRIPS, FATCA, and others. The fourth priority for Kremer is to promote the UCITS brand in Europe and beyond, particularly in Asia and Latin America. Kremer points to the importance of assisting and educating regulators in Asia to ensure that they better understand the new European regulations. Kremer’s final priority, which cuts across borders, is to increase the legitimacy of the association, as well as its visibility and credibility. In three years, the association’s budget has increased 40%. The idea, of course, is to continue to increase the number of members and to increase its financial resources.