Fund Forum International special: There are too many funds and management firms


At a time when retirements are presenting a major challenge, the European asset management industry is cruelly inefficient, James Broderick, CEO of J.P. Morgan Asset Management Europe, has said at the first plenary session of the Fund Forum International, being held this Tuesday to Thursday in Monaco. Broderick claims that there are too many management firms and too many funds in Europe. “We need to find a way to reduce the number of management firms and funds,” he opined.One of the solutions, says Broderick, may be to introduce regulations which would require management firms to undertake an audit of their funds when they fail to respect certain criteria for size, profitability and performance.Currently, the obstacles to a reduction in the number of funds are largely fiscal, says Elizabeth Corley, CEO of Allianz Global Advisors Europe. She also points out that most small funds are managed by small management firms. Another factor holding back mergers of these funds is that funds must approve such moves in shareholder votes.Concerning concentration of management firms themselves, the process is being held back by the fact that the sector does not require much in the way of owners’ equity. “Thus, the cost for a bank or insurer of retaining a management firm is very low,” explains Corley. The price paid for a management firm is low, as the market values the assets and not the firm in and of itself. “The less you are obliged to do it, the less you will be inclined to sell,” Corley says. In addition to that, there are political pressures in some countries which want to retain their national champions.When asked about this issue by Newsmanagers, Martin Gilbert, CEO of Aberdeen Asset Management, responds that the funds now on offer are too abundant, while only a small portion of the funds on sale attract subscriptions. As to whether there are too many management firms, Gilbert responds that there are many firms which are poorly managed, at any rate, as they have very low operating margins.