“The acquisition of Gartmore will allow us to offer new investment strategies”


Newsmanagers: What does the Gartmore acquisition change for you? Patricia Kaveh: In terms of assets, it doesn’t change much! I only picked up GBP50m which were managed by Gartmore for French and Geneva clients. Staff hasn’t changed either, as the firm Henderson acquired had no office in France. Things are different in Spain and Germany, where our teams each inherited about GBP1bn and are integrating the staff. What does change for us is that we will be able to offer our French clients new investment strategies. Newsmanagers: What are those? Patricia Kaveh: Gartmore was a company known for its absolute return management, which we are clearly going to foreground. We are going to offer a long/short UK equities fund managed by Ben Wallace and Luke Newman. We are also going to promote emerging markets equities management, an area which we had only covered in Asia at Henderson. I am planning to push a Latin America fund, Gartmore Sicav Latin America, managed by Chris Palmer. The third area of expertise at Gartmore is European equities management, with John Bennett, manager of the Gartmore Sicav Continental Europea. All of Gartmore’s funds are already registered in France. Newsmanagers: How have the first few months of 2011 gone for Henderson in France? Patricia Kaveh: The beginning of the year is a little difficult, due to the sectoral turnover which investors are making as they pull out of growth equities and move to value. We have seen redemptions of about EUR270m, largely in European growth equities. Luckily, we offset those redemptions with inflows of an equivalent amount to tech, publicly-traded real estate and even Japanese small caps. The other positive point is that we have extended our client base to include institutional investors, with the arrival of Charles Henri Herrmann a year ago. And in the second part of the year, we are hoping to be able to announce a positive balance of flows! Newsmanagers: What funds are you going to highlight for the rest of the year to get to that point? Patricia Kaveh: In addition to new areas of expertise at Gartmore, we are going to foreground European equities from Tim Stevenson, the fund by Richard Pease, a European small caps fund by Ollie Beckett, our global tech fund, publicly-traded real estate, our Credit Alpha fund, and the Henderson Horizon Euro Corporate Bond. We are also going to go a little way into the many products that Henderson will be launching in the next few months. Richard Pease, once he closes his Special Situations fund at GBP500m, up from GBP400m where it is now, would like to create a pan-European fund focused on dividends. In September, Nick, Sheridan will be managing a European value equities fund. Also, once the Henderson Credit Alpha fund is closed, which won’t slow down its strategy, as assets are limited to about GBP750m, we will still be offering the Henderson Horizon Euro Corporate Bond Fund, which has already been launched, and which has GBP50m in assets. And lastly, we are going to create an emerging markets currencies fund.