EFAMA seeks to deepen dialogue over ETFs


Following a statement by the French asset management association AFG (see Newsmanagers of 23 May), the European fund and asset management association (EFAMA) has also reacted to a paper from the Financial Stability Board (FSB) about risks related to ETFs. Like the AFG, EFAMA points out that the vast majority of European ETFs are UCITS-compliant vehicles, and that they are therefore subject to solid regulations, which guarantee a high level of protection to investors. Though it is true that the universes and strategies of UCITS products are evolving, due to demand on the part of investors for reduced risk and parallel improvement in returns, it is also trust that all strategies are required to remain within the constraints of the UCITS directive. These requirements will be further strengthened with the introduction of the UCITS IV directive on 1 July, particularly in the area of risk management. EFAMA also responds to the FSB’s concerns related to potential conflicts of interest, exposure to synthetic products, securities lending, and use of collateral. The professional association remarks that these issues are common to the entire financial services sector, and that from its point of view, they are under control and largely reduced by UCITS regulations. EFAMA does, however, say that discussion of regulations regarding collateral would be welcome, either in regard to synthetic ETFs or to securities lending, with the goal of reducing arbitrage risks. In order to address the issues pointed out in its paper, “we encourage the FSB not to limit discussions exclusively to ETFs, as most of these issues are not specific to ETFs,” EFAMA says; it encourages the board to undertake an exhaustive analysis of exchange-traded products (ETP), and to make clear distinctions between products and legal frameworks. “It is very important to maintain or establish an equitable environment for all financial products, and to avoid regulatory confusion between ETF, ETN, ETC and other products,” EFAMA says. EFAMA also recognizes the high level of growth and fast pace of innovation in ETFs, a phenomenon which nonetheless is quite limited compared with the larger fund market, and whose impact on secondary markets should be placed in perspective. Only 2.6% of all European funds are ETFs (3.5% of UCITS funds), and high growth rates are related to this lower baseline.