“To ease the risks inherent in the sovereign debt crisis, the market is selling us diversification”


Newsmanagers: What does GIP represent in Switzerland? Jean-Rémy Roulet: The GIP is a group of Swiss pension funds with 40 members, which in total volume represent one tenth of retirement planning, or about CHF50bn. Newsmanagers: What proportion of that amount overall is managed within pension funds, and how much of it is external? Jean-Rémy Roulet: Each fund is responsible for the amounts it manages, and so it’s not possible to lump everything together. My experience as head of the joint industrial and construction retirement planning fund (CPPIC) makes me able to say, though, that the larger the pension fund is, the larger the amount of its assets that are managed internally. With about CHF700m under management, CPPIC is a mid-sized pension fund, and virtually all of its assets are managed externally, while a small part of its bond allocation is managed internally. In detail, we are now working with 30 asset managers, and that group includes British, American, French, and Swiss establishments. Newsmanagers: Who is in charge of asset allocation at your pension fund? Jean-Rémy Roulet: The board of the pension fund foundation is responsible for strategic allocation, while a placement committee is in charge of tactical allocation. Currently, the standard allocation includes 25% equities, 35% real estate assets, and 15% alternative management, including private equity and funds of hedge funds. The remaining 25% are allocated to bonds, mostly government bonds. Newsmanagers: What do you think of the different asset classes, particularly bonds, in light of the worrying situation looming in Europe? Jean-Rémy Roulet: In order to ease the risks inherent in the sovereign debt crisis, the market is selling us diversification. This diversification is global, and especially this year, we are taking it a step further by investing in debt denominated in local currencies. That means that we are currently underweight on European securities in order to manage risks. But at the other extreme, we are also avoiding countries like Switzerland, which have very low levels of debt, and whose returns on issues are low... We have made a decision not to hedge against currency risks, but there again, some of our colleagues at the GIP are following different strategies. For the equities asset class, we like our domestic market, and the high quality businesses it is home to, such as Nestlé, Novartis, etc. With about 30 companies, the Swiss market is a little cramped, and that’s why our global investment universe is more appropriate.