AllianceBernstein sets out to rehabilitate value approach


At a presentation in Paris on 5 May, Avi Lavi, CIO for European value equities at AllianceBernstein, sought to demonstrate to his audience that the time is now favourable for a value approach, following the market transformations of the past decade, particularly as, following the crisis, investors are once again hungry for equities, particularly “value” style equities, which are as inexpensive as in the late 1970s, but with much lower interest rates. They often offer dividend yields higher than those of bonds from the same issuer, while many groups are virtually swimming in liquidity, which leaves a margin to be redistributed to shareholders. AllianceBernstein is so convinced of the correctness of its approach, that it has recently entered the amLeague championship (see Newsmanagers of 14 January) to gain visibility among institutional investors, Olivier Herson, vice president for France, adds. The stock-picking process (bottom-up) undertaken by AllianceBernstein managers involves identifying blind spots and taking advantage of behavioural biases, and then undertaking further management, with about 75% active bets for the European Strategic value of, with EUR113m in assets, and the Eurozone Strategic Value fund, with EUR45m. They are currently betting on special situations (restructuring, mergers, spin-offs), the Euro zone crisis, including the banking sector, and on sustainable recovery, with major industrial sector businesses which have been unjustly undervalued. In terms of the price to book ratio (P/B), at 1.2 for the European Value, and multiples (P/E), at 9 times, the portfolio of the European Value fund is much «cheaper» than the market generally. In addition, Lavi claims, the 17 products of the value range (a strategy which represents a total of EUR81bn) all have earned positive annualised returns since their inception. The 10 value portfolios domiciled in Luxembourg have about EUR2bn in assets. The Paris office has about EUR2.5bn in assets, of which about 60-70% is in credit. The equities products which have been most popular so far have been the Asia, Japan and United States funds. Herson’s objective is now to build up the European value equities product range, which represents only about EUR70m in mandates, and about EUR90m in funds.