The gold rally is far from over


The price of gold is rising, and the trend appears to be here to stay for a long time. “We have entered a long rising cycle, which may last as much as ten years,” Martin Murenbeeld, chief economist at DundeeWealth, stated on 14 April in Paris. From his point of view, gold is not in a bubble situation, and remains attractively priced as a financial asset. According to quarterly projections from DundeeWealth as of 1 April, the weighted average price of gold in various more or less optimistic scenarios may hit about USD1,476 per ounce on average in 2011, and USD1,546 as of the end of December. The average for 2012 is USD1,573, with a potential low extreme of USD1,160, and USD1,880 at the most optimstic. There are many arguments in favour of a continued rise in the price of gold. In addition to accomodating economic policy, the sovereign debt crisis, which may concern European governments for several years to come, and geopolitical instability, relatively new phenomena are accentuating the optimstic scenario, including inflation in emerging countries, limited growth in production from gold mines, which may have peaked, rising financial demand (ETFs, China, India), and central banks, including banks in emerging countries, which are buying gold. China has increased its gold reserves from 600 to 1,054 tonnes, while India bought up the 200 tonnes sold off by the IMF, and Russia is buying gold every month. Russia and India have proposed to revise the basket of DTS products to include gold. Of course, there are also potentially negative factors for the price of gold as well, such as the continued rise of the equities markets observed at the beginning of this year, and solutions to the European debt crisis, which have helped to restore investor confidence. According to Murenbeeld, two developments are particularly likely to contribute to a correction in the price of gold: the establishment of more restrictive “crisis exit” policies, and Chinese recession, with growth falling under 6%, among them.