Finma reports an investor and Bank am Bellevue


p { margin-bottom: 0.08in; } The Swiss federal financial market surveillance authority (Finma) on 16 March announced that it has concluded its investigation into the Abrasives affair, begun in January 2009. The authority found that the investor Giorgio Behr violated his obligation to declare his investment in Abrasives, under article 20 of the stock market law. Finma says in a statement that it has reported Behr’s actions to the federal Finance department. Finma adds that the Bank am Bellevue actively supported Behr in his actions, “thus violating its organisational obligations and guarantees of irreproachable activity.” The scandal stems from a statement on 1 April 2008 that a group of investors, represented by Behr, had increased their stakes in the voting rights of the sia Abrasives company to a surprising degree, passing the 3% and 5% thresholds on 26 March 2008, 10% on 27 March 2008, and 15% and 20% on 1 April 2008. The company continued to be publicly traded until 2009. For the pursposes of the investigation, Finma opened an administrative procedure against Bank am Bellevue, which appeared to be the primary buyer of the Abrasives shares on the market. Finma also retained an investigator. In autumn 2009, Finma then opened an administrative procedure against Behr, on the basis of the investigator’s report. The two major procedures revealed that Behr was able to increase his stake in Abrasives to more than 20% of voting rights in only a few days – between the end of March and tbe beginning of April 2008 – with the help of Bank of Bellevue, which bought the nominate shares in the names of and on behalf of its clients, in order to subsequently sell them to Behr. The bank thus “parked” the shares in sia Abrasives in clients’ names. In acting in this way, Behr committed a severe violation of his obligation to declare the stake under the stock market law, his organisational requirements, and the guarantee of irreproachable activity. The bank took organisational measures during the procedure. Finma has imposed several conditions on it, and has threatened to cancel its banking license if they are not satisfied.