“Our providers have to move from a catalogue culture to a culture of listening”


p { margin-bottom: 0.08in; } Newsmanagers: Agicam is an asset management affiliate of AG2R La Mondiale (born of the merger with Prémalliance), an entity which grew last year with the acquisition of Gérer S2E from Banque Palatine (see Newsmanagers of 21 July 2010). What is the weight of the new ensemble?Philippe Dutertre: Our assets as of the end of the year totalled about EUR13.3bn, in addition to which there are EUR450m in employee savings at S2E. We manage about EUR9bn in retirement assets, and EUR4bn for insurers of the group, and EUR460m in employee savings. In this latter area, we now have nearly EUR1bn, with the acqusition of Gérer S2E.Newsmanagers: How do you handle the other major stakeholders which are your providers of investment solutions? Philippe Dutertre: I feel that we need to bring the sales functions up to date in our profession. In terms of client service, we require excellent reactivity. We also thing that the functions of a product specialist, and of the senior advisor on one and and the placement agent on the other, have a promising future ahead of them. We ask our providers to move from a catalogue culture to a culture of listening, in order to know where the client’s needs are.Newsmanagers: Your group has been converting to SRI for a long time. Is this new approach limited to the equities asset class?Philippe Dutertre: Decidedly not. We already manage about EUR1bn in socially responsible investment, either of equities or bonds. I estimate that the profession, and therefore we, are engaged in a process of discovery with SRI, which will eventually extend to private equity and real estate. For private equity, we already have EUR200m in commitments, of which 50% have already been called in. Socially responsible private equity is now centred on an environmental fund and a fund oriented to diversity. More generally, we have opted for a best-in-class approach, with engagement.