We will assist French management firms abroad


p { margin-bottom: 0.08in; } Newsmanagers: What are the main characteristics of your third-party marketing (TPM) activity? Alain Tanneur: The goal of this professional area is to introduce brands to the market. We take sole charge of sales of products to professional or qualified French investors, on behalf of management firms which ask us to do that, which may not have the capacity or an internal sales team. For this activity, we receive an exclusive mandate and are paid by the management firms out of the inflows. We represent management firms whose various ranges are complementary, and avoid problems of competition in asset classes, geographcial regions or management styles. The TPM industry, along with financial expertise development, which we have been involved in since 2003, is a relatively young business in France, and has 15 actors, some of whom belong to the French association of third party marketing (AFTPM). I admit that handing over commercial development to a third-party company is not common practice in France yet, compared with the United States or the United Kingdom. Newsmanagers: You have begun offering sales of French funds in other countries. Where is that activity going to develop? Alain Tanneur: In France, we have some good management firms, which despite their quality have only a limited presence in some markets, particularly non-French-speaking markets. When we undertake sales of funds for management firms, an early step is to recruit experienced professionals who are in a good position with local institutionals. We have recently recruited an institutional specialist for Italy, and we are in the process of finalising a partnership with a French management firm to provide marketing for its product range in Italy. Scandinavia will be our second area of international development. Then the Spanish and German markets may soon interest us also. Newsmanagers: What other plans have you got for 2011? Alain Tanneur: We have applied for a license from the Prudential Control Authority to become an investment business, and it will come into effect in first quarter 2011. This status will serve two goals for us. Firstly, it will facilitate our international development. Secondly, it will allow us to diversify our activities, in France as well as other markets. We are planning to make private placements of equities or debt instruments. That means of appealing to savings is well-developed in the United States, but not yet widespread in Europe.