Country risk: line dividing emerging from developed markets begins to blur


p { margin-bottom: 0.08in; } Coface, which for 2011 predicts a moderate downturn in the global economy, announced on 17 January at its 15th Country Risk conference that the time has come for convergence between risk levels in developed and emerging markets, which have seen improving ratings throughout the crisis. The big winners from the crisis are emerging countries, which in 2011 will continue their trajectory of solid growth, with a slight slowdown, to 6.2% from 6.7% in 2010. This is in distinction to the Euro zone, where the private debt bubble led to gorwth for government debt. Activities in emerging markets are not burdened with these private debts. However, emerging markets are not safe from an increase in debt in the private sector. How can the investment boom which will continue to be seen in 2011 be financed? Coface estimates that the answer will be to focus on two types of profile. On the one hand is the “Polish-Brazilian” model of tendency to borrow abroad, as local banks are too reticent, and domestic interest rates are prohibitive, as a result of which there is a risk of having increasingly many collaterals in these countries denominated in the local currency, and on the other hand, the “Chinese-Vietnamese” profile, in which companies borrow more commonly in local currency from domestic banks, which are often not equipped to correctly analyse the risks. These entities have high levels of debt, and sometimes lack transparency, and may find themselves in difficulty. The global panorama of country risk presented at the 2011 conference points to a pronounced division in risk between developed and emerging markets, related to the stability of the latter and the resistant payments observed by Coface from businesses in emerging economies during the crisis. Emerging markets showed high and stable rates of activity and high levels of financial solidity, although risks have degraded in developed markets. Among these, only 9 out of 28 have returned to their pre-crisis levels. Before the crisis, the lowest raring for developed markets was A2, while 9 emerging markets had ratings higher than or equal to A2. In 2010, the lowest rating for developed markets was A4, and 27 emerging markets, including China, Turkey, Brazil, India and Poland, had ratings higher than or equal to A4, and have a higher rating than Greece, Ireland and Portugal, which are subject to the bubble in public and private debt. Turkey is now only a cut below the United Kingdom, while Poland is better rated than Iceland.