“In Asia, we can stand out due to our on-site investment style”


Newsmanagers: East Capital has turned 15. How is the Swedish asset management firm you co-founded doing?Karine Hirn: East Capital has EUR3.8bn in assets under management, compared with EUR3.5bn one year ago, and EUR5.7bn just before the crisis in 2008. The life of the long-only asset management firm is tied to those of the markets in which it invests. These markets are highly attractive, but can have turbulent times.Newsmanagers: What form has your development taken?Karine Hirn: In our desire to internationalise our client base, France has quickly returned to our agenda. The Paris office appears perfect to us to deploy in southern and continental Europe. The internationalisation of our clients then followed, with the opening of an office in Hong Kong in 2006, and Oslo, when we also strengthened our investment capacity by opening offices in Moscow and Tallinn, to support the work of our private equity and commercial real estate investment teams. In 2010, we entered China, acquiring the firm Asia Growth Investors that year. We also opened an office in Shanghai to acquire a local legal status we did not yet have.After the 2008 crisis, we undertook a strategic reflection about our future. The question of starting a fixed income activity was asked, but despite proximity of this asset class with equities, we decided not to proceed at that time. We remain an equity investor. We preferred to set ourselves the objective of investing in Asia, where we think we can stand out through our on-site investment style.Newsmanagers: You yourself live in China. Is that necessary to manage funds invested in the country?Karine Hirn: Absolutely. We are convinced that we need to understand the companies we invest in, which make on-site presence indispensable, and require business visits. In Eastern Europe as in China, what sets us apart is our evaluation of businesses and management of risks on markets which lack transparency. Our conviction is not shared by all. One of our competitors recently told me that its teams never travel to visit businesses, since once you’re there, they lie to you...Newsmanagers: What do you think of the situation in Eastern Europe and Russia?Karine Hirn: For many years, all of the countries of Eastern Europe have benefited from the theme of European convergence. The theme has naturally eroded slightly, but it is still an inspiring model. In this region, the most integrated countries into the euro zone are suffering more than the ones which are less dependent on exports due to the size of their domestic markets, such as Poland and Turkey. However, investment in frontier markets such as Ukraine and the countries of Central Asia remain difficult.For its part, Russia is naturally subject to political risks. The middle class which represents 70% of the Russian population are very interested in what’s happening at the Kremlin. That does not surprise me, and I would even say that reaction appears healthy to me. Meanwhile, the Russian stock market has very low valuations, near 1998 levels, and which are thus attractive, since businesses have high growth levels. Meanwhile, the health of the Russian economy in 2012 has been higher than in 1998! But this market is dominated by foreign investors, and is thus highly sensitive to the sentiment of Western investors. On the one hand, many large projects exist in Russia, and on the other hand, uncertainty about oil is feeding concerns. But I repeat that we are not concerned. The energy sector represents only 20% of the Russian economy, and falling oil prices will lead the country to undertake the necessary reforms to reduce its budgetary dependency on oil.