Pension funds plan to increase their exposure to smart beta and high-risk assets


Pension funds worldwide are planning to diversify their portfolios, via exposure to emerging markets, infrastructure and smart beta, according to the eighth edition of the bfinance semiannual study of pension fund asset allocation, covering a group of institutional investors in Europe, North America and the Middle East representing global assets under management of USD350bn. In terms of equity and bond investments, the survey finds a general trend among institutionals toward investment in emerging markets, largely to the detriment of government bonds in the first half of 2013, and to the detriment of developed market equities and government bonds on a longer, three-year horizon. In net terms, 17% and 24% of respondents say that they are planning to increase their exposure to emerging market equities in the first half of 2013, and in three years, respectively. The percentages with investment intentions are virtually identical (+17% and +35%) for emerging market debt. The survey also finds that a reallocation of bond portfolios, as part of a search for returns, are working to the advantage of the credit asset class. Over three years, investors are planning to reduce their exposure to equities from developed countries and government bonds, in favour of emerging market equities, credit bonds, real assets and hedge funds. Management based on efficient indices (smart beta), such as low volatility/minimal variance strategies and risk-weighted strategies, will continue to be in high demand, with 43% of institutionals planning to reallocate a part of their passive management to these strategies. Among alternative assets, infrastructure, venture capital and absolute return management such as dynamic asset allocation funds and diversified growth funds have the highest percentage of investment intentions, both for the first half of 2013 and for three years. Despite a trend for positive investment in alternative management, institutionals are avoiding funds of hedge funds. Alternative multi-management receives a net negative balance of investment intentions of 7% for three years.