“We are considering launching ETFs based on volatility or certain smart betas”


Newsmanagers: Theam is based on four areas of expertise. With 18 months in existence, is this model, which is being emulated by competitors, suitable? Are there points in common between the various activities you cover? Gilles Guérin: Theam, the unit which includes Harewood AM and SIGMA teams from BNP Paribas Asset Management, already has a genuine identity, which is based on four areas of expertise: index-based management, active systematic management, guaranteed products, and alternative management. We could have made four boutiques, but there is a relative strong logic for bringing them together in a single entity. In terms of risk management in particular, we treat derivatives both within the index-based activity via synthetic replication and as part of guaranteed and quantitative management. These are the basic themes which converge for very strong risk controls. I would just add that our positioning is clear and that the fact of being a part of BNP Paribas IP while being in contact with the financial and investment bank of the group is a strength for us. Newsmanagers: What are the activities you are most satisfied with in terms of results, and conversely, what are the disappointing areas? Gilles Guérin: Assets at Theam total EUR44bn, compared with EUR47bn at its creation. This decline reflects a reality with two sides: on the one hand, outflows from guaranteed products, on the other, positive inflows to our other three pillars, index, quantitative management, and absolute returns. In terms of guaranteed products, there is a common trend for the entire European industry. In France, we are facing declines for funds which were developed with rates of 3%, 4% or 6%, while they are now near zero. Due to competition from short-term savings products, our replacement rate is lower than in the past, with a direct correspondence with interest rate levels. For the other areas of expertise, there is a dynamic of inflows: +44% for systematic active management, +36% for absolute return products. Overall, we still have ambitious goals for 2016. Newsmanagers: There is a type of product which is not much discussed at your asset management firm: ETFs. Where are they? Gilles Guérin: We have refocused the product range, as we don’t see much reason to have an overly wide product range. For us, ETFs are only one component of our index-based product range, which includes mandates, funds, and also an advising concept. ETFs are a particular vehicle which make it possible to trade immediately at known prices. They are also part of a tactical allocation when the investor has determined a strategic allocation. With this in mind, we have a range of ETFs in all major asset classes, including equities, bonds, commodities and real estate. But in all cases, the products in question remain mainstream. No ETFs are invested in confined markets with low liquidity levels. Lastly, we are also working to offer innovative ETFs even when these are not of interest to our clients. We are considering volatility or certain smart betas in particular. Newsmanagers: What is the nature of your client base, and what areas for growth have you defined? Gilles Guérin: Retail clients now represent half of our business, while institutional clients account for less than 50%. We would like to strengthen our presence serving institutional clients, and to do that we are planning to rely on quantitative management, including internationally. Currently, this is the only class of investors in which we are seeing inflows. Theam is only 18 months old, let’s not forget, and our priority is to further strenghten the bases of our firm. That will involve the launch of new products, as especially in our area, we need to innovate and develop new products. But let’s be clear: the new products we will launch must meet demand. This year, minimum variance was such an area for us. Next year, it might be volatility. We will be careful to offer promising ideas, but under no circumstances to offer products just to “fatten out” our product range.