“We help asset management firms to be more effective”


Newsmanagers: What business is Equinox Consulting in?Jean-Baptiste Coiffet: Equinox Consulting is a consulting firm, specialised in organisational management, founded eight years ago. We have 160 consultants, and our teams are specialised by profession: Asset Management and Investor Services, Corporate & Investment Banking, Retail Banking, Insurance, and also by function: Risk and Internal Controls, Finance, HR, and change management.The asset management department has 30 employees and represents 25% of the earnings at Equinox Consulting.Newsmanagers: What are the challenges that asset management firms need to face?Jean-Baptiste Coiffet: Asset management is an activity which is structurally dependent on the market environment, and which now needs to confront major uncertainty about the profitability of its economic model. Competition on the asset management market has gotten stronger in the past few years. Earnings from asset management firms are subject to significant volatility in a market context which is unfavourable to asset managers, who need to confront falling equity markets which affect assets, a falling trend in management fees, and risks of outflows, particularly in France.In addition, regulatory changes such as EMIR, AIFM, UCITS IV/V, Solvency II and Fatca all affect regulation of financial products and markets, as well as customer relationships, and are having a profound impact on the profession.Newsmanagers: In the face of these needs, what are the services you offer to asset managers?Jean-Baptistte Coiffet: We help our clients with their transformation projects, and we help them with their thinking about how to evolve and adapt. Optimising processes and organisations are a part of that. We help out particularly with organisational and cost-controlling projects. The creation of high added value structures, optimisation and rationalisation of information flows, and the implementation of management and reporting tools. As an example, we participated in the operational integration of the activities of Fortis IM into the operational model of BNP Paribas IP, a mission which took over two years.We also assist our clients to evolve their models to comply with new regulatory requirements. As an example, we are assisting the major market actors in the market to develop their models for new regulations such as Solvency II and EMIR.More specifically, we also help to prepare license applications, compose service agreements, and establish operational processes for the management and monitoring of sales commissions.Newsmanagers: Are you active in the area of product ranges from asset management firms?Jean-Baptiste Coiffet: Yes, another one of our missions is to help asset management firms to adapt the product range they offer to end clients. Asset management firms need to adapt their product range to offer a coherent and clear product range.Currently, there are often too many identical products within a single range from an asset management firm. In this case, rationalising the product range is absolutely necessary to allow the asset management firm to meet the expectations of the market and to increase profitability. Asset management firms have understood this challenge. We estimate that in the next five years, product ranges will shrink by about 20%.Newsmanagers: Where is the most potential in asset management today?Jean-Baptiste Coiffet: Unlike in Europe, where asset management is going to see a lot of outflows, the Asian region is particuarly active in terms of inflows. It is indispensable for asset managers to address this region, which has dynamic demographics and a growing middle class, particularly in China. This is the region where asset management firms will find subscribers.