Liquidity and tracking error chief concerns of ETF users in Asia


Institutional investors in the Asia-Pacific region are increasingly taking an interest in ETFs, but the market is still very far from the sophistication to be found in the United States, according to a survey undertaken by Greenwich Associates on behalf of State Street Global Advisors (SSgA).Asian institutionals make most of their ETF investments offshore, generally in ETFs listed in the United States: four institutionals out of ten say that they acquire ETFs on foreign markets. This is unsurprising, since in this market segment, liquidity and products are more abundant in North America, and especially on the New York stock exchange. Assets in ETFs on the Tokyo Stock Exchange total USD44.5bn, a fraction of those in ETFs listed in New York, which represent about USD1.2trn. However, the Korean Stock Exchange is the most liquid in terms of annual trading volumes. But the US market is clearly much deeper than the Asian market, with the 10 largest ETPs representing 38% of ETP assets on the New York stock exchange, and the 10 largest ETPs in Tokyo accounting for 97% of assets.When asked about their ETF selection criteria, 85% of Asian institutional investors cite liquidity and trading volumes, followed by tracking error (61%) and total expense ratio (53%). This is followed by track record (44%), diversity of products (43%), and far behind, the company and team responsible for products (13%). Investment in ETFs is still an anonymous activity in Asia, and clients are not particularly interested in the issuer, the survey finds.The use of ETFs in Asia ex Japan is also much less sophisticated than in the United States. The major objectives sought are, firstly, core/satellite portfolio allocation (66% of respondents), followed far behind by risk management and hedging (38%). For US users, ETFs are used largely for tactical adjustments, portfolio rebalancing and transition management.According to Kevin Quigg, global head of the SPDR ETF strategy and advisory at SSgA, a large portion of the use of ETFs in the United States “is less about ‘F’ and more about ‘ET,’ and that influences the market, since ETFs have shown that they are effective for resolving market difficulties.”But Asian institutional investors are expected to gradually follow in the footsteps of their American counterparts. 40% of them want to increase their use of ETPs in the next few years, while 46% say they want to maintain their current allocations.