“We are going to be more aggressive in continental Europe”


Newsmanagers: You had a decisive influence on the development of the SRI approach in management at Petercam. Is it realistic to consider an extension of that process to the entire range?Hugo Lasat: We plan to extend it to other funds than the European equity fund and the government bond fund. At Petercam, we have several niches of expertise, and SRI is one of them. In addition, the border between traditional financial management and SRI is blurring. There is a close link between SRI and governance, as well as with financial risks related, for example, to pollution or product positioning. What may be acceptable in these areas now may not be in five years, so that the SRI approach allows for better management of risks as well as financial aspects. We believe in “double alpha,” in both financial and SRI. And we have several products planned in this vein.Newsmanagers: You are the head of the “institutional asset management” unit at Petercam. To you plan to “attack” the retail or wholesale client segments?Hugo Lasat: For asset management, we have opted for a centralised model in Brussels, with an extension to Luxembourg. However, for sales, Petercam has opted for a decentralised model. We do have a team in Brussels, but we have recently opened in Geneva, Madrid, Frankfurt and Milan. Our objective is clearly to let our assets speak for themselves. But we can also significantly increase them with our existing specialised teams in management. As a complement, we clearly need to increase our sales capacities, and we are in the middle of a big “roll out” of this process, with new branches. We have not ruled out opening one in Scandinavia next year. To respond to your question more specifically, our ambition is clearly to develop the institutional client base. We already have international clients, and France is sure enough a strategic market for us, and we plan to be more aggressive in continental Europe, targeting banking networks, funds of funds and private banks. Meanwhile, we are also planning to develop specific mandates for institutionals by participating in requests for proposals.