“Long-term savings is our core profession”


Newsmanagers: What results can you report already from the first nine months of the year? Patricia Kaveh: Despite an environment that continues to be highly difficult, and volatile markets, we have managed to stabilize our assets, both groupwide and on the French market. Groupwide, we finished first half with assets under management of GBP63.6bn, which is down by slightly over GBP700m since the end of December. But the positive point is that outflows have slowed significantly since the beginning of the year. Two thirds of our funds are doing as well as or better than their benchmarks. In terms of what concerns me more directly, the French market, our assets remain firmly anchored at over EUR1bn, wth EUR1.2bn, and this year we have positive net inflows. As for the group as a whole, market effects also allowed us to offset outflows from our equity funds. And we should emphasize the ongoing popularity of our Henderson Horizon Euro Corporate Bond funds, which now has over EUR750m as of 20 September, whereas since its launch in late 2009, it had not really posted outflows, as its assets under management still stood at EUR80m as of September 2011. Newsmanagers: How do you explain that movement? Patricia Kaveh: as global growth slowed, ongoing volatility on equity markets dampened investors’ enthusiasm, but they considered European credit as a source of opportunities to increase returns. And some investors focused on that fund, which has earned more than 27% since its lauch in late 2009, and more than 11.3% since the beginning of the year (data as of the end of August). Newsmanagers: Are these results inspiring you to strengthen your bond offerings? Patricia Kaveh: European equities are among our core products, but we must note that inflows are currently disappointing in this asset class. We are therefore continuing to strengthen our bond range. We are not starting out from zero, since fixed income already accounts for more than EUR20bn groupwide. But we would like to diversify further in this asset class, and at the same time to meet the desires of our clients. With this in mind, since the beginning of September we have extended our credit team, with the recruitment of two senior analysts, Rob Oman and Peter Staelens, with the objective of launching a European high yield fund within our Luxembourg Sicav this November. The fund will be managed by our director of credit, Stephen Thariyan, and by Chris Bullock, also manager of the Henderson Horizon Euro Corporate Bond fund. The new fund will invest at least 70% in high yield securities (ratings of BB or lower) denominated in euros or GBP. The managers will also be able to invest up to 30% in securities not included in the benchmark, which a maximum of 15% exposure to the finance sector. While we wait for a recovery on the equity markets, meanwhile, we will continue to foreground our expertise in European equities, with more than EUR8bn in assets under management. In the European Equity small cap equity fund universe, we are offering the Henderson Horizon Pan European Smaller Companies fund, and the Henderson European Special Situation, managed by Richard Pease; in mid and large caps we have the Henderson Horizon Pan European Equity fund by Tim Stevenson, and in European large and very large caps, we have the Henderson Gartmore Continental Europe fund by John Bennett. Newsmanagers: Considering the development of your product offerings on the French market, do you have new growth objectives in terms of assets? Patricia Kaveh: A I say, we are in the process of accentuating our efforts in bonds, and we are ready to participate ina recovery on European equity markets. On these two bases, I hope to double my assets in the next two to three years.