Investors considerably more confident in August, particularly about Europe


Investor sentiment has risen sharply from the lows of July and fund managers have increased allocations to equities, real estate and commodities, according to the BofA Merrill Lynch Survey of Fund Managers for August (an overall total of 232 panelists with USD640 billion of assets under management participated in the survey from 3 August to 9 August). A net 15 percent of the 173 panelists participating in the global survey believe that world economy will get stronger in the coming 12 months. This represents a monthly swing of 28 percentage points, the largest leap in confidence since April to May 2009. In July, a net 13 percent said the economy would weaken. A corrolary of this development is that fears about the outlook for corporate profits have reduced since July. A net 21 percent of the panel expects profits to deteriorate in the coming year, down from a net 38 percent a month ago. The fresh optimism comes amid growing expectations of intervention by the European Central Bank (ECB). The proportion of the panel ruling out more quantitative easing by the ECB has halved to 9 percent, while 38 percent expect the ECB to act during the third quarter (up from 29 percent in July). BofA Merrill Lynch reports that this surge in confidence seems to be more a triumph of policy projection and potential than positive economic data. In other words, the risk is now that inaction by policy makers would lead to a negative reaction in global markets. Investors’ positions remain highly prudent: bond allocations remain high and investors are shunning the most cyclical equity sectorsHaving turned their backs on Europe, especially the eurozone, for much of 2012 investors are becoming far less bearish on the region. A net 5 percent of investors want to underweight eurozone equities – down from a net 18 percent in July. A net 9 percent wants to underweight the U.S., compared with a net 6 percent looking to overweight U.S. equities in July.