GLG creates an equity management team for Asia


GLG Partners, the asset management arm of Man Group plc, has announced that on Monday, 16 July it formed an equity management team in Asia. The long/short equity team, based in Hong Kong, and adept in stock-picking based on a fundamental approach, will be jointly led by David Mercurio, head of Asian equities and co-head of global equity strategies, and Ben Freischmidt, a specialist in risk management, a statement says. Mercurio joined GLG in September 2011, and previously worked for the Government of Singapore Investment Corp (GIC); Freischmidt, for his part, has been working for GLG since March 012, after co-founding the Singapore firm LionRock Capital, where he was chief operating officer. The two executives will be in charge of a team of four sectoral specialists: David Walsh, an expert in the industrial sector, Nick Vidale, who covers finance, Sahil Khanna, a specialist in the consumer and technology, media and telecommunications sectors, and lastly Carl Esprey, a materials sector analyst who will be based in London, a statement says. Walsh, an industrial sector equity manager, joined GLG in April 2012 as an Asian equity portfolio manager. Before GLG, he had worked at Optimal Fund Management since 2002, where one of his most recent roles was as a partner and Asia Pacific ex Japan equity portfolio manager. Esprey joined GLG in January 2008 in London, as manager in charge of a portfolio of commodity and mining sector equities within the European long/short strategy. He previously worked for the Corporate Finance division of BHP Billiton in London. Nick Vidale, a financial sector equities analyst, will join GLG In August 2012 as manager of an Asian equity portfolio. Since 2010, he had been a regional expert in the financial sector for CLSA in Hong Kong. Lastly, Sahil Khanna, equity manager for the consumer and technology, media and telecommunications sectors, will also be joining GLG in August 2012 as an Asian equity portfolio manager. He previously worked for Geosphere Capital, where he was a senior analyst in charge of the consumer and tech sectors since 2011.