Management professionals predict increased concentration in their sector


Nearly all asset management professionals meeting in Monaco for the Fund Forum International feel that there is no doubt that the movement of consolidation in their sector is set to increase. Nearly 40% of participants at a conference on the subject find that mergers and acquisitions are necessary to accelerate rationalisation in the sector. 19% of respondents estimate that that would improve the performance and quality of products, and 17% say it would also help firms comply with regulations.Although many asset management firms are now letting word get around that they are up for sale, few buyers are on the market. In fact, an acquisition, if it allows a firm to reach critical size, may also have a negative effect. Bernhard W. Langer, chief investment officer for global quantitative equity at Invesco, says that to finalise an operation takes 12 to 15 months. During that time, the firm will continue to operate at a reduced scale, and may lose market share.Martin Gilbert, CEO of Aberdeen Asset Management, and James Charrington, charman EMEA at BlackRock, two firms familiar with acquisition operations, warn against acquiring boutiques. One needs to have the spirit that the boutiques have often been created by managers who left larger asset management firms to work independently. A decision to sell often represents a will to take profits. Gilbert says acquiring an affiliate of a bank is easier. It may be true that, as Gilbert says, “all you are buying is a distribution network.” But that is much easier to integrate, particularly if the acquisition involves capital and commercial agreements, as there were between Aberdeen and Credit Suisse.Although the affiliates of banks are more likely to find buyers, what does the future hold for boutiques, which are often facing succession issues? According to Eric Helderlé, CEO of Carmignac, the example of Fidelity, which has been able to grow over three generations, shows that it is possible for management structures supporting the firm to remain independent over time. “To do that, you need to ensure that talent at the asset management firm is not concentrated in the hands of only one man, or a few men, in order to ensure that the culture of the firm can survive,” he says.