FSA slaps former hedge fund CEO with a record fine


The Financial Services Authority (FSA) has decided to fine hedge fund CEO Alberto Micalizzi GBP3 million and ban him from performing any role in regulated financial services for not being fit and proper. This is the FSA’s largest fine for an individual in a non market abuse case.At the relevant time, Micalizzi was the chief executive officer and a director of Dynamic Decisions Capital Management Ltd (DDCM), a hedge fund management company based in London.The FSA has also decided to cancel the permission of DDCM to conduct regulated business. The decision notice for Micalizzi, dated 20 March 2012, states that between 1 October 2008 and 31 December 2008, the master fund managed by DDCM “suffered catastrophic losses of over USD390 million, approximately 85% of its value”. In the FSA’s opinion, in late 2008, to conceal the losses, Micalizzi lied to investors about the true position of the Fund and entered into a number of contracts, on behalf of the fund, for the purchase and resale of a bond. The FSA believes that the bond was not a genuine financial instrument and that Micalizzi was aware of this when he entered into the bond contracts.In the FSA’s view, the bond contracts were deliberately undertaken by Micalizzi to create artificial gains for the fund. And despite the losses suffered by the fund, he continued to seek new investors. “It is the FSA’s view that by providing false and misleading information he deliberately concealed the true value of the fund from one new investor who subsequently invested USD 41.8 million on 1 December 2008,” states the authority.In May 2009 the fund was placed into liquidation. The fund’s liquidator estimated that the fund’s assets on liquidation were worth approximately USD 10 million. To date, no payment has been made to any investor by the liquidator.Micalizzi and DDCM have referred this matter to the Upper Tribunal where they and the FSA will each present their case. The court will then determine the appropriate action for the FSA to take. It may uphold, vary or cancel the FSA’s decision.