Pioneer to launch French-registered funds


Pioneer, the asset management firm of the Italian Unicredit group, is planning to take the occasion of the UCITS IV directive to launch French-registered funds. The new European regulations allow the manager to do so without opening a local asset management firm, with a European passport for products. The Paris office of Pioneer, led by Fabien Madar, will be able to create dedicated funds for French institutional investors, which had previously been impossible, costing the firm “some opportunities.” The application for the European passport, which is underway, will take some time – at least a year. That will help the firm to achieve its objective of EUR2bn in the next two years in the region covered by Madar, which also includes Belgium, Monaco, Switzerland and the Netherlands. Assets now total EUR1.6bn, after inflows of EUR120m since the beginning of the year. In 2011, Pioneer France posted net subscriptions of EUR200m, and saw an increase in its assets from EUR1.35bn to EUR1.5bn. This came even though the firm worldwide saw a decline in its assets of 13.2% to EUR162.1bn, largely due to difficulties on the Italian market. In the next five years, Pioneer is planning to increase its assets by 15% per year, under a strategic plan launched six months ago.The plan, which represents an investment of 20% of earnings, aims to increase the percentage of assets managed for clients outside Pioneer, which are now on a par with assets coming from the parent company. “We would like this share to represent the majority of our assets,” explains Sandro Pierri, the new head of asset management at UniCredit and the next CEO of Pioneer, on a visit to Paris. This will involve stepping up the firm’s presence abroad, particularly in Asia and Latin America, and strengthening its investment capacities. In terms of geographical development, Pierri points out that an office in Mexico will soon be opened, and that a country head will soon be recruited for it. In terms of investment teams, several people have already been recruited, particularly for the emerging market investment hub being created in London, and for global equities in Boston. Others are to come. Lastly, an appointment will probably be made to replace Pierri in his role as head of Western Europe and international activities at Pioneer Investments, following his promotion to CEO of Pioneer.