“The current times are right for active, discriminating and conviction-based management


Newsmanagers: How are institutional investors currently making their asset allocation decisions? Franck Dixmier: First of all, the regrettable thing is that long-term assets are being massacred by new regulatory constraints. With the withdrawal of institutional investors, we don’t have long-term buyers anymore. Now, in practice, we are finding a trading of equities in favour of credit. That’s a lesser evil. From a tactical point of view, this operation is interesting since the risks are governments, not businesses. Now, we have to be selective, taking into account sovereign risks which may penalise some sectors, such as finance, for example, or telecommunications or utilities. For the rest, there are attractive opportunities throughout the market. Corporate credit represents a serious alternative to sovereign debt in the euro zone. Newsmanagers: Where do you see the best opportunities? Franck Dixmier: The best opportunities are in the high yield now. Newsmanagers: In sovereign debt, do you have some preferences? Franck Dixmier: Investors have a problem which leads them to seek returns and more if they can get them! With a “buy and hold” logic, there is nowhere that it makes sense to buy currently except German government bonds. You need more risk. For that, buying Italian government debt for a long-term investment is a good solution. We are more cautious about French debt. We feel that France has had an undeserved privileged status for a long time in the familly of AAA-rated countries. Now, we are in a repricing phase, particularly in comparison to Germany. Spreads are going to continue to widen. France is the European champion in public spending, and needs to reduce its significant spending. Newsmanagers: ETFs are clearly not affected by the crisis. Does this increase in investments, particularly from institutionals, seem justified to you? Franck Dixmier: We are seeing a lot of major changes as a result of the crisis: a significant increase in the complexity of the markets and the emergence of specific risks, and systemic order. As a part of this, investing in a wider index via an ETF makes no sense, in my opinion. The current times are right for active and discriminating management, conviction, and concentrated portfolios. Newsmanagers: Does your asset management firm have products under preparation which would bear out your line of thinking? Franck Dixmier: In the bond asset class, we are going to respond to appetite on the part of investors, who are overweighting objective criteria of financial orthodoxy and good governance of public spending. This is perfectly opposed to traditional bond indices, which place the heaviest weight on the countries with the most debt! Concretely, we are soon going to launch a product based on an index constructed in this way. In another genre, we are going to launch a defensive type high yield bond fund, a Luxembourg-registered fund which will bridge the gulf between the financial sector, for example, and distressed securities. The average rating will be about BB.