SSgA restructures its customer services


State Street Global Advisors (SSgA) is dropping its approach oriented to its product range in order to give top priority to an approach which puts the client at the centre of its strategy. With this in mind, the US group is creating a new global unit, the Investment Solutions Group (ISG), which will take over from the old division dedicated to multi-asset class strategies. The new unit, which has been in a gradual creation process since last autumn, currently has 58 members specialised in strategies based in wight major financial centres: Boston, Montreal, London, Dublin, Paris, Tokyo, Sydney, and Hong Kong. In order to meet the local needs of clients, the unit can rely on over 400 investment, risk, regulation and deontology professionals. Under the leadership of Dan Farley, Chief Investment Officer, the Investment Solutions Group (ISG) unit is structured into three divisions: the first is dedicated to portfolio management, which includes multi-asset class solutions and strategic and tactical allocation, while the second is dedicated to strategy and research to help clients identify their investment problematics, and a third division specialised in fiduciary services. Portfolio management by the ISG team relies on the full expertise of SSgA in each asset class (equities, bonds, money markets, commodities, etc), and includes the full range of strategies in diversified management. It is managed throughout Europe by Frédéric Dodard, head of EMEA (Europe, the Middle East and Africa). “We would also like to be able to respond in a more coordinated and much more global manner to the complex investment problems which may affect our clients, who are seeking to control their risks in a market environment which continues to be highly difficult, aiming for performance objectives which are necessarily more modest than in the past,” Farley recently explained on a visit to Paris. “We found that it was increasingly difficult to achieve objectives which an approach oriented to products, in light of our desire to put the client at the centre of our new framework. That change has allowed us to be closer to our clients, while providing a means to draw on all of our global expertise.” It is a possibility that the ISG unit will recruit by the end of 2012, particularly in Boston and London.