Style ETFs developing slowly in Europe


In Europe, style ETFs, with a value, growth or cap size bias, remain marginal. Value/growth ETFs represent only USD0.45bn, while equity style ETFs have USD115bn in assets in the United States, Isabelle Bourcier, head of development at Ossiam, has said at a round table at the InsideETFs Europe conference, on investment based on risk factors. This difference is due first of all to the fact that US investors are more sensitive to management styles than Europeans, which reflects a more unified market on the American side of the Atlantic, and a more fragmented market in Europe. Boucier also cites the typology of European investors in ETFs, who are largely funds of funds, private bankers, etc. These investors are primarily interested in geographical diversification in Europe. But those who are interested in management styles may be put off by the heterogeneity of the methdologies of index providers, which leads to vastly different baskets of assets, which require an excess of work. “Investors who are seeking exposure to a style prefer to turn to active managers,” says Bourcier. The head of development at Ossiam also claims that ETFs based on risk factors (to which style ETFs belong as well as funds based on volatility, momentum, etc.) should be used more as a “toolbox,” in an opportunistic manner, rather than for long-term investments. Arne Stall, director, head of systematic strategies and tracker products for Europe at Barclays Capital, agrees. He feels that ETFs based on risk factors may be used ni a tactical manner, or to hedge a portfolio. “One must be aware that these ETFs cannot function over a whole market cycle.” He claims the combination of different types of factors makes sense. Paul Kaplan, CEO of Morningstar, claims that ETFs based on risk factors may both serve the interests of short-term investors and long-term invetors, for example, whose who estimate that a long-term investment in a value style will outperform. However, he estimates that some factoral ETFs, such as funds based on the VIX, commodities, and leveraged and inverse ETFs, which are rather ETFs for playing short-term trends, are absolutely not appropriate for retail investors. He points out that style ETFs are still bets against the market, and that investors need to be aware of that.