Rothschild &amp; Cie Gestion and HDF Finance merge their multi-management activities


Rothschild & Cie Gestion, the French firm led by Jean-Louis Laurens, announced on Thursday that it is merging its traditional and alternative multi-management activities with those of HDF Finance, an French boutique which since mid-2009 has been led by Christine du Fretay, following the decease of her husband and the founder of the business, Gilles du Fretay. The businesses involved at the two asset management firms will be merged into a single firm, which will be known as Rothshild HDF Investment Solutions, and which will be 67% controlled by Rothschild & Cie Gestion and 33% by HDF Group. “Rothschild & Cie Gestion will eventually control 100 % of the new entity,” Laurens, a managing partner in the business, tells Newsmanagers. Rothschild HDF Investment Solutions will be headed by Laurens, and directed by Denis Faller. Pierre Lenders, currently CEO and co-CIO of HDF Finance, will be appointed as deputy CEO of the new company. Christophe Jaubert and Marc Terras, for their part, will serve as deputy CEOs and co-CIOs. Christine du Fretay, the current chairwoman of the board of directors at HDF Finance, says that she will not hold any responsibilities in the new organisation, and that she will be limiting her role to that of director and minority shareholder. In terms of human resources, Laurens states that some work to adjust and reclassify positions at HDF Finance has already been undertaken, and that the goal for Rothschild HDF Investment Solutions is to reach a level of 45 employees. To this end, “some adjustments will be made,” the head admits, “while sales positions are still vacant for Northern Europe and Great Britain.” In figures, the merged entity has EUR4bn in assets, of which EUR3bn comes from Rothschild & Cie Gestion, taking into account the recent acquisition of Héritage AM, and EUR1bn from HDF Finance. In terms of assets, the objectives set by Laurens may be considered cautious: “we are aiming to grow by 10% per year, of which 5% will come from inflows, and 5% from market effects.” This is a modest objective, largely due to to the “difficult” French market. “At any rate, we have a few advantages which make us a credible player in Europe,” the director adds.