“We will soon have a product range in asset classes other than equities”


Newsmanagers: The strategy indices on which all the products of your range are based have a bright future ahead of them. What does this category represent exactly? Isabelle Bourcier: The concept of strategy indices is a very broad one. The AMF defines them as indices which have “atypical» characteristics, such as, for example, the existence of a strategy intrinsic to the index, which aims to create particular behaviour or outperformance compared with their market of reference.” For the equity asset class, ‘market of reference’ would include indices weighted by the market capitalisation of businesses. Our range is now concentrated on strategy indices which aim to correct specific biases of indices weighted by market capitalisation, such as the effect of concentration of market indices on a small number of firms with large capitalisation, or failure to take risk into account when weighting the shares included in the index. In addition to indices which offer an alternative in terms of the determination of the weighting of shares in the portfolio, known as “alternatively weighted schemes,” the definition also includes other leveraged or short indices. Newsmanagers: What is Ossiam’s product range like? Isabelle Bourcier: The product range from our firm is characterised by an approach which aims to offer strategies at varied risk profiles, for all asset classes, which are fully transparent insofar as our investment processes are systematic, and can be implemented for ETFs on the basis of indices which are calculated by independent providers. The objectives for indices developed by our research teams is ultimately to avoid risks related to active management, such as bad stock-picking, by adopting a non-discretionary approach, and to use added value in financial engineering.Newsmanagers: How do your strategies respond to the current expectations of investors?Isabelle Bourcier: In general, indices which are classed as “alternatively weighted” meet the expectations of institutional investors who are seeking to optimise performance, while remaining prudent with respect to risk. This is the case in Europe for many pension funds, which are additionally subject to significant regulatory constraints. Their appetite for so-called “smart beta” alternative strategies has led us to develop our Minimum Variance indices, which reduce volatility by about 30%. Investor demand for these products will be likely to endure, as many certainties of the past have been washed away by the crisis. Newsmanagers: What are your future development plans, and how will those be put into action in Europe? Isabelle Bourcier: We are a quantitative asset management firm. In terms of product range, we are in a position to offer tracker funds via Ossiam Lux, a Luxembourg Sicav whose asset management firm is NGAM S.A., for which Ossiam is the asset management subadvisor. But we can also manage mandates. So far, our product range includes only equity indices. However, we will soon also have product offerings in other asset classes. In terms of distribution, outside of France we have international distribution capacity through our major shareholder, NGAM (Natixis Global Asset Management). We also have ETFs listed on several European stock exchanges. Our product range is UCITS IV compliant.