“We believe in the independence of processes and investment teams”


Newsmanagers: The management of NAM is now organized into “business units.” How does all of this work, and why this choice? Pascal Voisin: We decided to organize the management of NAM into six business units. These are autonomous investment centres which are responsible for their own processes, which have shared support functions (risk control, reporting, legal) at NAM, and a distribution platform in France and internationally. These business units are divided into two categories: our “core” expertise, which represents 90% of our assets currently, and high-potential complementary areas of expertise. In the first category, we started out with the assumption that demand by our clients had changed in a difficult market context and increasingly restrictive regulatory changes. Natixis AM has chosen to segment itself into three business units: euro fixed income management, European equities management, and client investments and solutions, which offer global investment solutions which extend beyond simple asset allocation. In addition to these, there are three complementary business units positioned on markets with high potential for development: responsible investment, structures & volatility, and global emerging markets. The latter includes equities and fixed income products, currencies and commodities in a single entity. We did it this way because, even if there were two distinct asset management teams for equities and fixed income products, it appeared attractive to us to make these two teams work closely together. On these markets, macroeconomic analysis is highly important and we benefit if that is shared. The currencies dimension, which is controlled well by fixed income managers, may also be very useful to equity managers. Lastly, research into emerging markets equities will benefit further from local analysts in Asia, and subsequently in Latin America. Newsmanagers: What would you like to bring your clients with these changes to the organisation of NAM? Pascal Voisin: The vast majority of our clients are institutional, and consist largely of businesses and banking/insurnace companies. As part of our “core” management, our “client solutions and investments” business units will allow us to respond to a growing need for investment solutions, particularly for retirement savings. We think we can be solidly armed to better respond to the current needs and concerns of our clients, for several reasons: our global range of multi-asset class management solutions with risk or liability budget management constraints, our high-perfornance employee and retirement savings management, which we expect to grow irrepressibly, and lastly, our ability to respond effectively to the new needs of banks and insurers, in order to strengthen our privileged relationships with the co-operative bank and savings bank networks, which we see developing profoundly in terms of expectations for long-term savings. Newsmanagers: International markets appear to be a major area for development for your asset management firms. Have you set specific objectives? Pascal Voisin: Currently, international assets represent less than 5% of assets at Natixis AM managed in Paris. I would say that our goal is to increase this proportion as much as possible. To do that, we have set ourselves two objectives: accelerate our listing with consultants, and assist sales teams at Natixis Global AM Distribution, who will aim to take our expertise to other countries, as much as possible. In order to do that, we need to increase the number of “product specialists.” These specialists work with managers as spokespersons and assist sales staff in promoting these areas of expertise. Our priorities are now clearly in Europe: Italy, Switzerland and Spain, where NGAM Distribution opened an office in July last year. We have two more geographical reasons to develop in for specific reasons: the United States, where NAM does not yet have any US-registered funds, and Asia, where demand is oriented more to assets in US dollars than in euros. The product ranges from our US affiliates serve this demand very will and largely meet the needs of these markets. Newsmanagers: Are you still planning an external growth deal, after you tried to buy Pioneer Investments? Pascal Voisin: Natixis Global AM was potentially interested in this acquisition, but it did not go through. We are still looking for any operations that may come along, but we do not have any precise plans at this stage.