Asset managers slow to prepare for Facta legislation


The Spring 2012 conference of the Luxembourg investment fund association (ALFI) has demonstrated that the publication last month of proposed legislation laying out the terms ofhte so-called Facta law represent a genuine subject of concern for a growing number of players present in the asset management sector. But efforts to take this new legislation into account are laborious and remain partial, partly due to the unclarity which continues to surround some parts of the proposed legislation. Geoffroy Bazin, chief operating officer in the Investment Solutions division of BNP Paribas, declared at a round table on the subject that at the end of 2011, he had received only one request for information about the Facta law from a major asset management actor. Asset management firms are nonetheless beginning to be concerned about the problem, and major actors such as BNP Paribas and professional associations have made the Facta law a top priority. “Asset management firms will need to pay attention to the basic elements of the Facta law now, if they do not want to be overtaken later,” says Roger Exwood, head of product taxation for the EMEA region at BlackRock. BlackRock is planning to begin to actively communicate with distributors on the subject. Major players are considering enlarging their product ranges, and BNP Paribas is studying new ranges of services, which may concern registration, client identification or deductions. There are still many points to clarify, including “pass-through payment,” (payment from non-US sources), and the question of the treatment of sub-funds. These are complex questions for the intergovernmental approach, as the application of the Fatca law is slated to be undertaken by the US, British, German, Spanish and Italian governments, which adds further uncertainty about the legal and regulatory framework to be introduced. The European financial and asset management association (EFAMA), which claims that relaxations of the law are still possible, is actively working on the subject and is hoping to present its questions by mid-April.