Carmignac Gestion closes a fund


Carmignac Gestion has announced in a notice to shareholders that it is liquidating and closing the Carmignac Innovation fund. The dissolution was approved by the French financial markets authority, the Autorité des Marchés Financiers (AMF) on 30 January 2012. The cash settlement of the assets to shareholders will be available as of 9 February 2012. In the letter from the asset management firm, Eric Le Coz, deputy managing director, explains that «the fund was created with the objective of investing across all innovation sectors, but it has, unfortunately, not lived up to our expectations». «At the fund’s inception, the most cyclical and defensive sectors, such as IT and healthcare respectively, had a very low level of correlation, which was a major advantage for fund management. Since 2007, the renewed high correlation among these different sectors has prevented the fund manager from effectively adapting asset allocation to changes in the economic cycle», he writes. The firm also explains that it does not believe that restricting the investment universe to just one of these sectors would provide a satisfactory solution in terms of the risk/return ratio. “We depended on the notion that the fund would not be monosectoral,” Le Coz admits in an interview with Newsmanagers. Carmignac Innovation, a descandant of Carmignac Technologies, created in 1997, invested in IT, biotech and energies via oil services and renewable energies. “Unfortunately, the fund found itself in a lower category compared with pure products which offered better performance,” the head says. Due to these sub-optimal results over the long term, down 36% and 47%, respectively, over five and 10 years, the asset management firm preferred to end the life of a fund which found itself relegated to the bottom quartile.Tim Jaksland, the fund manager, will not be leaving Carmignac Gestion, but will join the sectoral analysis team at the firm.The letter to shareholders also states that assets stand at EUR50m, of which almost 70% is held by the asset management firm’s own funds of funds, Carmignac Profil Réactif 50, 75 and 100, and in mandated management by the firm. The loss of the fund will not be compensated for by the creation of a new mutual fund. No new fund with the Carmignac Gestion name is expected to be released this year, says Le Coz.