ING IM prefers high yield and emerging market debt


In a context of ongoing euro zone crisis in early 2012, the European economy is facing a slight recession, and it is not yet known whether it will worsen or lessen. “We have entered a world full of uncertainty and unknown factors, but we have also entered a world full of opportunities,” said Valentijn van Nieuwenhuijzen, economist in chief and strategist on the asset allocation team at ING IM, at an investment committee meeting on 24 January. In this unstable environment, in which limited growth and muted returns are the norm, the worst case is not a certainty. “The cost of a collapse of the euro would be so monumental that European political leaders have a will to avoid such a scenario,” the ING IM strategist says. Since 2008, the environment has completely transformed, and for a long time. “The first thing for an investor to do is to accept the new environment and to move over to a passive vision of investment. To finds returns in all market conditions, investors now need to adopt a dynamic tactical approach, take risks, if there are strong convictions, but also to expect unexpected shocks and manage the risk pudget over the whole portfolio,” he explains. With this in mind, ING IM currently has a marked preference for high yield and emerging market debt. Michel Ho, investment specialist in the credit team at ING IM, says “the credit cycle is continuing to improve, with a minority of firms losing money and default rates expected to remain at a low level in 2012.” The signs are pointing to weak economic growth, or even a slight recessino, which would net necessarily have an impact on this asset class. At least in an unexpected collapse of the euro zone, high yield would post double-digit growth this year, says Ho. The other major opportunity at the moment is in emerging market debt, where investments have increased impressively. This is a rapidly-growing asset class, which already accounts for over USD10trn, which is not closely monitored by analysts, and which offers significant diversification, with excellent fundamentals and improving quality, and which, as a result of what has come before, offers far higher returns that bonds on developed markets. Rob Drijkoningen, co-director of the emerging market debt team at ING IM, recommends an overweight position on government bonds in hard currencies which will continue to resist these headwinds. He is neutral on corporate debt due to the potential impact of emerging markeet growth and European crisis, but remains underweight on emerging market currencies, with a potential reduction in this position of global growth is better than expected and if extreme risks are reduced in Europe.