Star fund manager leaves Tocqueville Finance


Marc Tournier has left Tocqueville Finance, confirming an information which had leaked in the press late last year (see Newsmanagers of 23 December 2011). The star manager of the Ulysse fund is no longer employed by the asset management firm, where he had been deputy CEO, and is also no longer a shareholder. At the end of the negotiations which have taken place over the past several days, the Banque Postale has acquired the 15% stake in the capital in Tocqueville that had been held by Tournier. The firm now controls 90% of the company. The sale price for the stake has not been disclosed.The departure of Tournier comes shortly after the sanctions commission of the French financial regulator, the Autorité des marchés financiers (AMF), in early December issued a sanction against Tocqueville Finance. This included a fine of EUR250,000 for the fund manager and EUR150,000 for the asset management firm, for price manipulation of shares in the rental car business Ada (see Newsmanagers of 5 December 2011). This event is not said to have been the reason for the fund manager’s departure. Bruno Julien, CEO of the asset management firm, tells Newsmanagers that it “was a personal decision on which we have no comment.” Julien also says that Tocqueville Finance has no intention at this time to appeal the AMF’s verdict. Tournier may yet appeal the decision in a personal capacity.In now appears that the graft of a manager known as a firebrand and free spirit to La Banque Postale, which invested in the capital of Tocqueville Finance in 2009, never took root. The arrival of the partner firm in the capital of the asset management firm, however, helped to reassure clients of the asset management firm and cemented its position in the competitive independent financial adviser market. For its part, the firm contributed a value management style, which the group had not previously had, and a “flagship” manager. “The increased stake in the capital of Tocqueville Capital is a successful integration.” says La Banque Postale. “Following the departure of Tournier, the ADN for active management at Tocqueville Finance, the firm he founded, will remain unchanged,” says Julien.In practice, the departure of Tournier will lead to changes in the management of funds: the man who had been co-manager of the Ulysse and Odyssée funds with Didier Roman will be replaced by Jacques Burlot, head of collective management, who is already manager of the Tocqueville Dividende fund, another heavyweight in the range, with EUR318.1m in assets as of the end of 2011, compared with EUR354.3m for the Ulysse fund, and Tocqueville Olympe Patrimoine.“Our organisation allows managers to continue to realise our value management philosophy with complete independence,” says Julien. “The solid shareholder which is La Banque Postale allows us to plan for the forthcoming development of our management teams and fund launches, while continuing to work to meet client expectations.”