Investors regain some appetite for risk


Global investors have started 2012 with a reawakened sense of optimism towards the global economy and greater appetite for risk, according to the BofA Merrill Lynch Survey of Fund Managers, undertaken between 6 and 12 January, of a sample of 286 participants representing a cumulative total of USD818bn in assets under management.Is this the result of the year-end truce? Only a net 3 percent believe the world economy will weaken in the coming 12 months down from a net 27 percent in December - the biggest one-month improvement in the growth outlook since May 2009.As an illustration of this newfound appetite for risk, have fallen to their lowest levels since July 2011. Cash now makes up, on average, 4.4 percent of a portfolio, down from 4.9 percent in December. The proportion of investors taking lower than normal levels of risk has improved to a net 33 percent of the panel, compared to a net 42 percent in December.One concern that investors have highlighted is geopolitical risk. The proportion of respondents viewing geopolitical risk as «above normal» has jumped to 69 percent from 48 percent last month. This has, in the past, been correlated with a spike in the oil price."Investors are tip-toeing rather than hurtling toward higher risk exposure,» says Michael Hartnett, chief global equity strategist at BofA Merrill Lynch Global Research. The U.S. market and high quality cyclical sectors, such as energy and tech, have been the main beneficiaries of lower cash holdings. Despite improvement in global and European growth expectations asset allocators remain deeply skeptical towards European equities, especially banks.A net 28 percent are overweight U.S. equities, up from a net 23 percent in December. A net 31 percent remain underweight eurozone equities, an improvement from a net 35 percent a month ago but the second-worst reading on record. Technology has regained its status as the most favored global sector, highlighting the uptick in risk appetite after the defensive positioning at the end of 2011. The net percentage of investors overweight technology rose to 39 from a net 31 percent in December, overtaking Pharmaceuticals. U.S. fund managers are returning to banks while Europeans continue to reject them. The proportion of U.S. fund managers underweight banks has fallen to a net 16 percent from 32 percent last month. European fund managers have extended their underweights - a net 50 percent are underweight banks.