Fund managers optimistic about future of euro zone


Asset management professionals worldwide hold the optimistic opinion that no country will be leaving the euro zone this year, and that budgetary union will be formed in the next 10 years, according to the findings of a survey by the multi-management team at Aviva Investors, of 188 fund managers in major asset classes. While 41% of respondents say that some countries will be leaving the euro zone in the next 10 years, only one quarter of them (23%) think that it will happen this year. Among the remaining 36%, some don’t agree with this prediction, while others think that the exits will be offset by the addition of new countries, or will not occur at all. More than half of respondents (52%) are optimistic about the future of the euro zone, and feel that budgetarr union will be formed in the next 10 years. However, only 41% predict that the ECB or political leaders will take the necessary action to restore confidence in the euro zone during 2012. Mick Mansley, global head of multi-management at Aviva Investors, says that “no consensus is forming among managers as to the future of the euro. While we will continue to evaluate the ability of our managers to consider the consequences of a collapse of the euro zone, the findings show that over ten years, most managers are more optimistic and are predicting that a budgetary union able to assure the future of the euro will be created.” About economic outlooks in the United States, the United Kingdom, and Germany, 83% of respondents feel that the US economy will show the strongest growth in 2012, compared with only 17% for Germany. Although no managers reel that the United Kingdom would be able to turn in the strongest growth, 48% think that the British economy will have the highest inflation rate. As to their predictions for interest rate increases, half of managers (54%) predict that interest rates will be raised before the end of 2013. The highest and lowest probabilities went to the US and the EU. One third (33%) predict no increase in interest rates before 2014 at the earliest.