Fund managers committed to maintaining their strategies


The asset management sector appears to have bid farewell to fair weather. While preparing for more turbulence ahead, at least in the first part of the year, managers surveyed by Cerulli Associates in Asia, Europe and the United States (representing a total of more than USD10trn in assets under management) appear resolved not to modify their strategies much. This does not mean that they won’t adapt if the markets stay badd for a long time. In such an environment, cost pressures would be likely to increase. Managers surveyed do not predict, however, that the theme of costs would be likely to steer business plans at asset management firms. An increase in costs is often related to development strategies, as at Natixis, which is seeking to generate 50% of its profits from markets other than the United States and France. For his part, James Thorneley, head of communications for the Aberdeen Investment Management group, says that attention to costs may lead to mergers of secondary funds, but that these savings may be directed to the launch of new funds. Aberdeen is not the only company to see the need to make cost savings in order to look to the launch of new, more sophisticated and more profitable products. “Clients are seeking product solutions which are not constrained to a single asset class, but which have a highly sophisticated risk profile,” says Daniel Lehman, hin European products at Allianz Global Investors. “We have a manager in the United States who uses option hedging strategies for equities indices, which is working very well,” he adds. Carlo Cavazzoni, head of international distribution at Generali Investments, claims that “volatility is an asset class we have to learn to live with... We see enormous potential in asset liability management (ALM) and all associated services, such as liability-driven investment (LDI).” In terms of distribution, after a hard year in 2011, 2012 is not starting out well, to the extent that asset management firms will be likely to pay particular attention to managing client relations and brand management.