Two former managers from La Française AM launch their own company


Olivier Ramé et Jean-Philippe Collin, previously head of alternative management and a manager, respectively, at La Française des Placements, have founded their own firm, Swell asset Management, dedicated to tactical allocation. The two men have not completely severed their ties with their previous employer, as La Française AM has bought a 25% stake in the capital of the new boutique, with the remainder divided evenly between the two partners. The asset management company will also outsource a fund to them, LFP Allocations 3, which since its inception in 2005 has been managed by Collin, and will also provide a total of EUR30m in seed money. Half of the seed money, EUR15m, will go to LFP Allocations 3, whose assets currently total EUR60m, and which is a tactical asset allocation product investing in equity indices, interest rate curves, and currencies. The other half will be invested in the fund which the new boutique is planning to create. It will have the same process as the first fund, but with a higher volatility objective of about 7-8.The two managers will remain on the premises of La Française AM, even though they are moving to another floor, and will retain the same infrastructure they had used previously. For sales, the fund from La Française AM will be sold by both structures, while the second fund, although it will probably be a sub-fund of the Luxembourg Sicav fund from the shareholding asset management firm, will be sold solely by Swell AM. Swell AM, which received its license without suspensive conditions on Thursday last week, will have a third member, Déborah Uzan, who also joins the firm from La Française AM. Uzan will probably soon also join the capital of the structure. Ramé explains to Newsmanagers that the experiment will allow him to undertake an entrepreneurial project, more than ten years after participating in the creation of Alteram. He also explains that the tactical management used at LFP Allocations 3 has had a hard time finding its place at La Française AM.