“Our SRI assets could easily double”


Newsmanagers: How did Macif Gestion become the SRI unit of OFI? Eric Van Labeck: First, let me say that Macif Gestion was a pioneer of the idea of socially responsible investment (SRI). The asset management firm was founded in 1997 with the objective of undertaking SRI. The structure joined the OFI group in October 2010, and become the SRI expertise unit for the group. The team now includes seven people, including five analysts who work full-time on equities. With the assistance of external providers (MSCI, Vigeo and Ethifinance), they study mid- and large caps and governments. Our role is to make our analysis available to all SRI management, and it is then integrated into the investment processes. Newsmanagers: Do you supply all asset management at OFI? Van Labeck: We mostly supply the SRI management at OFI, and part of the management which is not labelled as SRI. Newsmanagers: How much in assets does this SRI management represent? Van Labeck: It represents EUR3bn, counting only our open-ended funds (three Macif funds and three OFI funds). Counting institutional mandates, we have EUR11.5bn, out of total assets under management at OFI AM of EUR47.3bn as of 30 November 2011. This “SRI” amount may easily double, as mandates may soon be converted to SRI. Some institutionals are considering doing that. Newsmanagers: How do you evaluate countries? Van Labeck: That’s easy compared to equities, since we have historical data. On that basis, we can construct a highly coherent referential, which we have done. Newsmanagers: And that provides the results? Van Labeck: Yes, the nearly predictive character of SRI referentials can be demonstrated. If you look at governments in countries which have a good ability to handle crises, it’s already in the country spreads. That corroborates the current situation. Newsmanagers: Have you seen increased interest in SRI due to the crisis? Van Labeck: Not more marked, but SRI is a recurrent subject. At any rate, SRI had been accused in the past of not performing well. Now, nothing is performing well.Newsmanagers: How do you envision the future of SRI? Van Labeck: The success of SRI will be the end of SRI. There will still be conviction-based SRI, of course, by exclusion. But the rest will eventually spread to all management. But the problem keeping us from getting there is access to information.