“We want to release global products in small caps and real estate”


Newsmanagers: You started a few years ago do develop abroad. What have been the results of your strategy? Paul Kempen: Yes, we have for several years been seeking to make ourselves better known to sophisticated European invetsors. Today, 15% of our fund and mandate activity (totalling about EUR9bn) is managed for clients located outside the Netherlands. And France is one of our key markets. Newsmangers: What other countries are you targeting? Paul Kempen: The United Kingdom, Switzerland, the countries of Northern Europe, Germany, and Italy. Newsmanagers: You have deployed your commercial efforts from Amsterdam. Are you considering one day opening an office in one of the countries you are targeting? Paul Gerla: No. The fact that salespeople are based in Amsterdam is very important for us. That allows them to be close to the fund managers they are selling, and to truly imbibe of the culture of Kempen Capital Management. Distance is not really a problem. Paris is only 4 hours from Amsterdam by train. Newsmangers: But if you raise significant assets in a country, could you change your mind? Paul Gerla: No, since at any rate, on our five areas of expertise, we have capacity constraints. And our policy is to have long-term partnerships with our clients. Newsmanagers: Can you describe to us the five areas of expertise, their assets, and tell us what their capacities are? Paul Gerla: Our first area of expertise, the one with which everything started, is the management of Dutch and European small caps. We manage a mandate for the Fonds de réserve pour les retraites (FRR) in this area. For our European small caps unit, we have 10 people in Edinburgh, a presence inherited through acquisition. We have EUR1.26bn under management in this area, and we are planning to have more room for growth. In Dutch small caps, we have EUR432m in assets. Our second area of experise, which we started in 2005, involves European and global dividend strategies. Today, we have about EUR3bn in global dividends, which means that we don’t have a lot more capacity. But in European dividends, we are at about EUR800m. We also have real estate (EUR1bn) and funds of hedge funds (EUR635m). These areas of expertise are managed in the form of funds or else in the form of mandates. Newsmanagers: If we add it all up, we don’t get EUR30bn. Paul Gerla: No, since in addition there is fiduciary management, which represents EUR12bn. We also have UR7bn for clients of Van Lanschot. Newsmanagers: Are you tempted to extend your range of expertise? Paul Gerla: We believe in specialisation and focus, and we try to stay nimble as a boutique. So the answer to your question is really no. However, both in real estate and in small caps, we want to launch global products next year in order to meet investor demand. Newsmanagers: Are you going to hire people for that? Or could you take over an asset management firm as you did in the past? Paul Gerla: We have already acquired a company in the past, but that was before I got here. As far as I am concerned, I don’t believe in acquisitions in the asset management industry. We go back to the corporate culture, which I was talking about before. It is very difficult to cultivate a culture. And if you buy a company, it is not clear that the teams at the absorbed company integrate the culture of the other one. I therefore prefer organic growth. To answer your question more precisely, we are planning to recruit for the real estate team. And for small caps, we are studying the question. Newsmangers: Do you have targets in terms of international assets? Paul Gerla: I don’t believe in targets. But it is clear that we want to grow more in Europe!