“We are planning to launch an ‘infra’ debt fund soon, aimed at institutional investors”


Newsmanagers: The levelling of the playing field at EdRAM is very recent, but have you already observed positive signs, and what asset classes are making the largest contributions? Laurent Tignard: Since it was instituted 8 months ago on our specialised platforms, and since putting our results in annualised terms, we have reached an additional EUR20bn in assets which we had set as our goal for 3 years. Since the beginning of the year, assets in our EdR US Value & Yield and EdR Europe Synergy funds have grown by more than EUR700m and EUR250m, respectively. As to our EdR Europe Convertibles fund, its assets have grown by nearly EUR360m, or more than 44%. In the niche theme of financial debt, our EdR Financial Bonds fund has seen its assets triple, and now total EUR134m. These inflows are supported by the good performance of the equity markets and the excellent returns for our funds, such as our EdR US Value & Yield fund, which has outperformed the index by more than 800 basis points since the beginning of the year. Our EdR Tricolore Rendement fund, which is invested primarily in French stocks, shows returns of over 22% in the same period. However, at the risk of surprising you, the proportion invested in equities represents only 21% of our assets. Newsmanagers: Do you plan to launch other funds nonetheless, particularly in asset classes in which you are not present? Laurent Tignard: We will doubtless be required to add to our teams in the next 3 years. For example, we may consider adding to our expertise in emerging market debt or fixed income. But I insist on the fact that we already have highly performing offerings, such as our European range, whether it be equities, convertible bonds (our EdR Convertibles fund has more than EUR1.2bn in assets under management) and investment grade or high yield credit. I would also like to state that our Currency Overlay activity, which is managed in Geneva under the leadership of Matthieu Gilbert, is much less well-known in France than in the United Kingdom or Switzerland, certainly due to exchange rates, but we are planning to make it better known in France as well. Newsmanagers: What is the position of London in your strategy? How does the recent strategy of the group influence your asset management activities in England? Laurent Tignard: Christophe de Backer, CEO of the Edmond de Rothschild group, announced 15 days ago that it is launching the first Private Merchant Bank for the group in London. He also explained that he would like to make London the fourth hub for the group. We had teams of managers who were not united at the same company. We thus created EdRAM UK, which now includes all our management expertise (Currency Overlay, quantitatie management, infrastructure management), and which currently has EUR5.6bn in assets under management. We are also going to launch a new expertise, the first launch since the reshuffle, which will be managed from London. I can thus announce to you that we are planning to launch, at the beginning of next year, an ‘infra’ debt fund aimed at European institutional investors. Our teams in London have more than 10 years experience throughout Europe in infrastructure investment advising. It will thus be in the position to source projects throughout Europe, with the support of the network it has been able to construct over that decade.