Pressure on asset managers’ profit margins continues


Since 2010, the average margin on AUM of European asset management firms has declined from 44 basis points down to 40 basis points, according to Fitch Ratings, which analysed a sample of 24 asset management players with combined AUM of almost EUR8trn as part of a new study of the future of the industry. “While not spectacular, this decrease illustrates the long term risk of margin pressure,” the authors of the study comment. Average margins have been impacted in recent years by a shift of the product mix away from high fee equity products, which have net management fees on average 50% higher than those on bond funds. Although a return to the equity markets is making itself felt, tensions are expected to continue, with the shift of institutional investors toward passive investments, with the concentration of distribution and by the growing demand on the retail side for low cost solutions like exchange traded funds (ETFs) or target date funds. To combat these falling margins, Fitch has identified three strategies: develop low cost products and compete on volumes; develop and strengthen high margin specialties; and build multi-asset capabilities to keep in-house the portfolio allocation part of the value. Fitch also notes that profitability levels vary significantly among the European asset managers, due to different levels of AUM margins and cost structures. On average, independent asset managers in Fitch‟s sample are more efficient than subsidiaries of larger firms. At the extreme, players like Jupiter and Ashmore stand out with both high AUM margins and low cost to income ratios. Independents have, in general, higher AUM margins than asset managers that are subsidiaries of other entities. Three quarters of the independents in Fitch‟s sample had a blended AUM margin in excess of 40bp, while only around one quarter of the subsidiaries had an AUM margin above that level in 2012. This in part reflects the product mix choices of the independents, with many more exposed to retail distribution and equities. A number of subsidiaries exhibit lower AUM margins (below 30bp) and higher cost/income ratios (above 70%), which together result in relatively lower profitability. This group includes Natixis Global Asset Management, Aviva Investors, ING and Axa. “In recent years, subsidiaries have not managed to increase AUM margins, reflecting stable product mixes and the relative inability to grow significantly AUM in higher margin specialties,” the study says. Fitch expects the situation to remain unchanged in the coming years. Conversely, subsidiaries still have room to improve their cost structure, through internal rationalisation and restructuring. Unlike subsidiaries of financial groups, independent managers have improved their cost/income ratio by around 10bp in the last three years.