Investors go for European equities


Investor bullishness towards European equities has reached pre-crisis highs as markets digest the emerging market sell-off, according to the BofA Merrill Lynch Fund Manager Survey for September. An overall total of 236 panelists with USD689 billion of assets under management participated in the survey from 6 September to 12 September 2013.As a consequence, the great rotation from bonds to equities has progressed. The gulf between allocations towards equities and bonds is at its widest since February 2011, and the second-widest in the history of the survey. A net 68 percent of asset allocators are underweight bonds, the greatest underweight position recorded since April 2006 – to give a bond to equity allocation spread of 128 net percentage points.Allocations to eurozone equities have reached their highest level since May 2007. A net 36 percent of global asset allocators are overweight the region, more than twice the net 17 percent recorded in August. A net 12 percent of asset allocators are overweight U.K. equities, which represents an all-time high. Allocations to emerging market equities remain low with a net 18 percent of the panel underweight. Investors have signaled their intent to maintain flows into Europe. A net 27 of investors say that the eurozone is the region they would most like to overweight in the coming 12 months – also the highest reading since May 2007. The switch in sentiment towards Europe has been swift. Only a net 2 percent expressed a desire to overweight the region in July.While optimism is returning to Europe, cash levels have risen to an average of 4.6 percent of portfolios. The proportion of asset allocators overweight cash has risen. Eight out of 10 investors believe the global economy will continue to grow at below trend rate in the coming 12 months.Negative sentiment towards global emerging markets has stabilized. The number of investors saying that emerging markets is the region they most want to underweight has fallen to a net 21 percent in September from a net 29 percent a month ago. Investors are indicating that they see the best value in emerging markets in almost a decade. A net 36 percent of the panel says that global emerging market equities are the most undervalued – or cheapest – of all the regions. This is the strongest undervalued reading since January 2004.