Only half of investors trust fund managers


The world over, investors are not showing much confidence in investment professionals, and a large majority of them feel tht much could be done to win back their trust, according to a study carried out between 7 and 25 June by the CFA Institute & Edelman Investor Trust, covering over 2,100 retail and institutional investors. The study finds that only 53% of investors in the United States, the United Kingdom, Hong Kong, Canada and Australia trust their managers in the conduct of their business. Retail investors are slightly more circumspect (51%) than institutional investors (61%), while investors in the United States (44%) and the United Kingdom (39%) are less confident than those in Hong Kong (68%). This scepticism with respect to investment professionals, however, does not not affect the point of view of investors with respect to capital markets. Three quarters of investors say they are optimistic about their ability to earn satisfactory returns. But the degree of this optimism is limited, as only 19% of investors say they are fully confident. “This study sends a clear message. Trust is an absolutely determining factor for the future of finance, and it is the responsibility of all actors to contribute to developing a financial system which is truly worthy of trust,” says John Rogers, chairman and CEO of the CFA Institute. Slightly over half of invetors (55%) say that the managers they work with have been the most effective in increasing their confidence in capital markets, compared with only 41% of investment companies, 38% of national regulators, and 35% of international regulators. The study also finds that it is essential to place the interests of investors at the top of the list of priorities for managers, in order to favour a return of confidence. With this in mind, performance is not crucial and should not be highlighted as in the past. “Investors in this study say that they want a change of culture, with renewed attention to ethical behaviour,” says Kurt Schacht, managing director, responsible for standards and integrity of financial markets at the CFA Institute.