“We are necessarily a short-term institutional investor”


P { margin-bottom: 0.08in; } Newsmanagers: What is the role of the Fonds de Garantie des Dépôts, which you are head of? Thierry Dissaux: The Fonds de Garantie des Dépôts is a market organism created by law, with private status, overseen by the banking sector. It currently has 699 members, and covers all guarantee mechanisms: guarantees of deposits and securities. We can act in several forms (lines of credit, recapitalisation, repurchasing of assets, etc.) using our own resources directly, as well as by providing guarantees. In total, through one or another of these modes of intervention, the Fonds de Garantie des Dépôts pursues its primary mission, which is to protect banking and financial assets and to strengthen the confidence of clients in their banks. Newsmanagers: In light of this role, either in intermediation or in reimbursement, it is impossible for you to know when the Fonds de Garantie des Dépôts will need to act... Thierry Dissaux: Just so. Unlike a pension fund, or a retirement fund, we have no precise knowledge of our liabilities, nor of the timing of its requirement. We know our assets and need to ensure that they are available first and foremost. However, we can also call in further contributions from our members if needed or turn to our borrowing facilities. For the rest, we have to be prepared for uncertainty. Newsmanagers: The Fonds de Garantie des Dépôts has capital to serve its function. What amounts of capital does it have? Thierry Dissaux: Currently, we have a financial volume of over EUR2bn, which, as part of talks currently underway with the European Commission, may be eventually increased to EUR10bn. Newsmanagers: What constraints do you expose yourself to in terms of management? Thierry Dissaux: The EUR2bn we have largely need to be invested for the short term. And they need to benefit from two essential characteristics: security and very high liquidity. Due to our role, we also seek to limit the risk of mark to market losses as much as possible. These specifications result in an asset allocation composed 70% of money market assets, 25% of bonds and 5% of equities. With the addition to this, there are numerous management constraints which we put in place in order to better respect our liquidity and security objectives. For money market assets, for example, the total maturity of securities must average less than three months, and no issue can exceed six months. In bonds, the average maturity is two years maximum and the duration of securities cannot exceed five years. Our investments are also subject to diversification, rating, and sectoral distribution constraints. We do not accept forex risk, nor risk outside the OECD. In general, our risks, and care to ensure that our results remain both under control and comprehensible to the public, lead us to limit ourselves to pure management, on basic asset classes. So no alternative or complex management. We do not invest in hedge funds either, nor in emerging markets. And for questions of liquidity, we do not invest in small and midcaps, private equity or real estate. Newsmanagers: So how do you ensure that the very low rate of interest and the virtual zero level of returns from money markets do not prevent you from achieving value from your investments? Thierry Dissaux: That is effectively a problem, but we are not prepared to relax the constraints on our management in order to seek additional returns by ignoring our responsibility to depositors. That difficulty appeared very clearly last year when the interest rates went negative. We were required to create a liquidity development mechanism with the Caisse des Dépôts so that our funds would no longer be invested at a positive net rate. We then, in a marginal and highly controlled manner, relaxed a few of our management constraints so as to enlarge the investment universe made available to our managers. In order to go further, we are currently working on setting up, inside our money market vehicle, management which uses maturity bonds.