“We have about EUR900m under management for French clients”


P { margin-bottom: 0.08in; } NewsManagers: You have recently registered your first funds in France. Why? Jennifer Richards: We registered three sub-funds of our Sicav in France. They are the Global Absolute Return Strategies SICAV (GARS), the European Corporate Bond Sicav and the Global High Yield Bond Sicav, which represent three of our specialities: absolute returs, corporate bonds, and high yield. That will allow us to target private banking clients in France. However, we would not like to approach retail investors directly. The registration of these products does not mark our arrival in France, however. We have many business relationships with institutional investors. In particular, we manage a mandate for the Fonds de réserve pour les retraites (FRR). NewsManagers: What are your assets under management for French clients? They were EUR300m in 2010... Jennifer Richards: We have about EUR900m in assets under management for French clients. NewsManagers: Wouldn’t that require opening an office in Paris? Jennifer Richards: We already have an office in Paris for real estate investments. But it is true that we don’t have a sales presence in France. I cover the French market myself from the United Kingdom with the help of one other person. It is clear that the next step will be to recruit a local salesperson in Paris. But for now, we haven’t taken a decision to do that. We are taking our time! NewsManagers: What is your development strategy in the other countries of Europe? Jennifer Richards: In Continental Europe, where we started to develop 8-9 years ago with our Sicav, we have several core target markets: Germany, the Netherlands, Ireland, Switzerland, Sweden, Finland and Benelux. We have also recently recruited for our German team, and we are planning to make a recruitment in the Netherlands to help us with sales. In total, our funds are registered in 14 European countries, and client assets in continental Europe represent EUR13bn. In 2012, growth totalled 37%. These efforts come as part of a diversification of assets at Standard Life Investments. Assets under management from external sources (outside the Standard Life group) now represent GBP90.4bn out of a total of GBP197.1bn in assets under management, or more than 50% of assets. NewsManagers: What is the size of your European team in total? Jennifer Richards: It consists of 14 people, nine of whom are directors of sales. They are assisted by a team of client advisers. NewsManagers: Have you opened offices in various European countries? Jennifer Richards: We only have offices in Ediburgh, Ireland and Germany. And these locations are related to the local presence of our parent company, Standard Life. We are very prudent in opening offices, since we are attentive to costs. Ao far, the fact of not having offices has not prevented us from growing. But of course, we know that clients like having local advisers.