Taxation: UK, Australia and United States investigate a list of offshore companies


P { margin-bottom: 0.08in; } The British tax authorities on 9 May launched a vast international investigation with their Australian and US counterparts, after receiving confidential information on offshore companies created by businesses or individuals to avoid taxes. The government has 400 gigabytes of data, which will help them to track parties who have concealed assets offshore. “The message is simple: if you engage in tax evasion, we will come after you,” the British finance minister, George Osborne, warns in a statement. The British government has invested hundreds of millions of pounds into combatting tax evasion, at home and abroad. These data represent a new weapon in the arsenal of the British financial regulators. According to the Guardian newspaper, the data provided to the authorities may in part be the same as those which were recently unveiled at an inernational press conference by the International Consortium of Investigative Journalists (ICIJ), inclulding confidential information on thousands of offshore companies. The 400 gigabytes of data are probably the largest leak of its kind ever to the British financial authorities, the press notes. They reveal the extensive use by rich individuals and businesses of complex offshore structures in order to conceal assets in various countries, including Singapore, the Virgin, Cayman and Cook Islands, the British Treasury says in its statement. The data are still being analysed, but the British tax authorities have already discovered that at least 100 people have benefited from these structures. Some have already been identified and are being investigated, according to the same source. The British tax authorities will also focus on the names of more than 200 accountants, lawyers and tax advisers who helped to set up these structures. British citizens who have used them will have to regularize their situation themselves, in default of which, the tax authorities warn, they will be exposed to legal action or very high financial penalties. Their identities may also be made public. The joint investigation by the British, Australian and US tax authorities may be the beginning of one of the largest tax investigations in history, the ICIJ notes on its website.