FTT criticised from all sides


P { margin-bottom: 0.08in; } A proposed financial transaction tax (FTT) is continuing to come in for criticism from all sides, both on the continent and in the United Kingdom, where before the weekend prime minister David Cameron again raised a red flag over the proposals, claiming that they are a bad idea and cannot work unless applied through the world.Similar noises came from the eleven European countries participating in the project. The FTT is not a priority question, the German finance minister, Wolfgang Schäuble, claimed on 9 May. “We are just starting talks. This is not a major concern, to be very honest,” Schäuble said in response to a question on the subject of the financial transaction tax.“This year, next year … it’s not a major problem,” he claimed. Germany and ten other countries in January agreed to create a financial transaction tax which could be introduced from January 2014.The statement comes at a time when the German business leadership has stepped into the breach to denounce the proposed FTT at the publication of a study by the Deutsches Aktieninstitut (DAI). According to the organisation, representing publicly-traded companies and investors, the estimated cost of the FTT for 24 major German companies would range from EUR600m to EUR1.5bn. “Politicians are clearly now aware of the damage which the FTT Would cause to businesses in the real economy,” the president of DAI, Christine Bortenlänger, says.Last week, directors at Dexia also discussed the FTT at a general shareholders’ meeting for the group. The French-Belgian bank, which lost another EUR300m in first quarter, pointed out that its future results would depend on external events, including the government debt crisis and the introduction of the FTT. If the tax were introduced, it would have cost Dexia EUR574m last year. “We can’t absorb that. And if Dexia were more active on financial markets, that would have an impact of EUR700m, or more,” said Robert de Metz, chairman of the board of directors at Dexia, at the general shareholders’ meeting. He claims that the tax should not be introduced in its current form, which is the minimal position of many professionals.