“In its current form, the planned FTT would put an end to the growth of ETFs”


P { margin-bottom: 0.08in; } Newsmanagers: Many important actors, such as the chairman of the Bundesbank, professional asset management associations, and several of your colleagues have expressed a good deal of hostility to the proposed financial transaction tax (FTT). What is your position on the subject?Ted Hood: In fact, in its current form, the proposed FTT in the 11 countries concerned (G-11) would be charged whenever a share in an ETF changes hands, including through intermediaries; it is also supposed to apply to market makers, security lending and repos. Hong Kong, the United Kingdom, France and Italy do not currently tax intermediaries, and this mechanism runs the risk of increasing the cost from 10 basis points to 80, or even 100 basis points. But intermediaries are indispensable, since they put buyers and sellers in contact. This tax runs the risk of triggering significant changes in the ETF sector. That would certainly reduce the appetite of non-European investors for European securities.Newsmanagers: What impact are you worried about concretely?Tim Hood: The cost of borrowing and lending money for the short term might increase. But the market needs liquidity. Banks use it for short-term financing. If liquidity is reduced by this tax, that would penalise government issuers as well as businesses. And the costs would be passed on to other agents. A recent study put the impact of the FTT on US money market funds at USD35bn per year. But, in fact, this tax may dissuade them from lending money to European borrowers. They would prefer to finance actors in European actors who are not part of the G-11 or issuers in other regions.Newsmanagers: Could the FTT damage the ETF sector?Tim Hood: In its current form, the proposed FTT may deal a severe blow not only to ETF providers but also to asset managers in general. Products would become more costly for asset managers based in the G-11. All professionals are seriously considering moving to the United Kingdom, Luxembourg or Ireland, which are not planning to charge the tax. That could penalise a country like France, which is a major country for asset management.Newsmanagers: So in a word, you feel that the FTT would be the death knell for ETFs?Tim Hood: No, but the sector would stop growing, particularly for ETFs which offer exposure to G-11 countries. It’s simple: if they sell, funds will have to pay, and so it may be simpler to stop buying!