“We are currently seeing an increasing number of transfers of teams of fund managers”


P { margin-bottom: 0.08in; } Newsmanagers: What does the CNP Assurances group represent in terms of assets under management? Vincent Damas: As of the end of 2012, the CNP Assurances group has assets under management of EUR290bn, not counting unit-linked assets. In France, assets under management total EUR260bn. We have four modes of asset management: internal management without delegation of management, including for some of the firm’s own equity; a European equity and bond mandate, to Natixis AM, with assets corresponding to insurance policies distributed by the Caisse d’Epargne network; a European equity and bond management mandate to La Banque Postale AM, for assets corresponding to insurance policies distributed by La Banque Postale; and management in open architecture in the form of open-ended or dedicated funds. This last category, which I am responsible for in terms of fund selection, represented EUR24bn as of the end of 2012. Newsmanagers: What does your role as fund selector consist of? Vincent Damas: After due diligence and interviews with managers, we make a list of asset management firms and funds which may receive investments from CNP Assurances. Our analytical ratings are handed to an internal selection committee which makes the decision of whether or not to retain a new fund. The department responsible for investment strategy then takes decisions regarding investment timing and amount on the basis of this list, currently composed of 110 asset management firms and 300 funds, including 50 money market funds. These are mostly open-ended funds, but in some asset classes, we also keep 15 dedicated funds in order to meet size or management constraints that are particular to us. The amounts invested per fund averages EUR80m. It may, however, be as high as several hundred million euros for some fund. We have recently engaged up to EUR300m in an infrastructure and real estate debt fund from La Banque Postale AM. Newsmanagers: What selection criteria in particular do you observe? Vincent Damas: We make a fine selection according to several quantitative and qualitative criteria: the size of the fund, the management style, and its coherence in time, the track record of the management team, the geographical region of investment, the coverage for currency risks or interest rates, the existence of an institutional share class, etc. In general, we list funds which have a track record of at least three years. But we can also be flexible. In terms of asset management firms, we examine the balance of asset classes managed and the resources dedicated to them. This means that we check whether the resources are insufficient, or inversely, out of balance with the assets under management. Clearly, the key factor of size for an asset management firm is not all. But when you move into asset classes like emerging market bonds, for example, which involve the mobilization of significant sums, simply the presence of an office in the countries concerned and the consequent teams of credit analysts, undoubtedly gives an edge to the larger asset management firms. Newsmanagers: What rules do you enforce when you monitor the funds you retain? Vincent Damas: The investment ratio which we currently impose is between 10% and 20% as a proportion of the total underlying liquidity in a fund. Due to the size of our assets, these investment ratios require us to retain asset management firms with at least EUR500m in assets under management and funds with at least EUR150m in assets. We can make exceptions, however, for very special seeding cases. Newsmanagers: Being as close to the management teams as you are, have you seen any particular developments recently? Vincent Damas: We are currently seeing a rising number of transfers of entire teams of managers who leave one asset management firm for another. One such transfer recently led us to stop our emerging market debt fund selection services from a company, all of whose managers for this asset class suddenly departed. This phenomenon naturally profits the fund managers.