“The generosity of certain foreign pension funds is paid for by the sacrifice of younger generations of contributors”


P { margin-bottom: 0.08in; } Newmanagers: In a verdict published on 14 March, the court of audit raises questions about the generosity of benefits...Philippe Desfossés: The Regime is presented sometimes as insufficiently generous. In fact, one must bear in mind that life expectancy at retirement is a statistic which constrains all pension regimes. What pension regime could hope to last if the pensions it pays let beneficiaries “get back” their contributions in 10 years, when their average life expectancy is 25 years? The relationship between the price paid to buy an RAFP point and the return it entitles the bearer to is slightly over 4%. This is coherent with the real life expectancy for RAFP beneficiaries.Newsmanagers: It has also been observed in other countries that some of your counterparts are seeking higher returns than the ERAFP, with higher-risk investments, in order to deliver noticeably higher benefits.Philippe Desfossés: Indeed, there are some foreign pension funds whose current generosity is clearly being paid for by the sacrifices of younger generations of contributors. Such schemes may be compared to Ponzi schemes, and are not sustainable... They calculate the current probable value of their investments by working out manifestly unrealistic presumed returns on their investments. How can you hope over long periods of time (sometimes more than 20 years) to invest in a manner that is “sure” to earn at least 7.5% returns? Pension regimes which, on this unrealistic basis, post technical rates of return which correspond to “recovery” contribution periods far shorter than the life expectancy of beneficiaries, are just counterfeiters!Newsmanagers: This is evidently not the path you have chosen?Philippe Desfossés: For its part, the ERAFP calculates the current probable value of its investments on the basis of an discount rate that is based on a prudent evaluation of the estimated returns on the asset. This expression, “prudent evaluation,” is the one that counts. If we go with a nominal rate of 3.5% (taking into account an inflation estimate by the ECB over the period of an average of 2%, that would correspond to a real rate of 1.5%) to calculate our mathematical projections, out management aims to earn returns higher than that rate of 3.5%.Newsmanagers: According to the verdict of the Court of audit, the ERAFP has increased its assets invested in bonds issued by governments of uncertain health. What does this mean precisely?Philippe Desfossés: One may say that there are some quotes which merit some additional explanation. The document is talking about a loss of EUR650m. But one should remember that the ERAFP holds virtually all bonds that the Regime purchases until maturity. In other words, potential latent capital losses cannot become a loss unless the security concerned is sold. For a “buy and hold” investor, therefore, there can only be losses if the issuer defaults on the debt before the bonds mature. The ERAFP, therefore, did not not any capital losses on its bond portfolio. Regardless of the case, regulations require the Establishment to be at least 75% invested in bonds. Since the decree of 30 December 2010, this has been lowered to 65%, as the RAFP received the right to invest up to 10% of its assets in real estate. In the short term, as the Regime is just beginning its first investments in real estate, bonds continue to represent 70.6% of its assets as of 31 December 2012.Newmanagers: Perhaps, but when an issuer defaults, isn’t even a “buy and hold” investor is affected?Philippe Desfossés: In the case of Greek bonds, we stopped buying them in Summer 2009, and the ERAFP was underweight on Greek debt. We may also point out that Greece defaulted only in March 2012. But in October 2010, chancellor Angela Merkel and president Nicolas Sarkozy were claiming that there was no risk in Greece until 2013... The default of a member of the euro zone has long been described as impossible. For the Regime, that resulted in a loss of EUR220m.