“Now more than ever, it is time to pursue responsible investment”


P { margin-bottom: 0.08in; }A:link { } Newsmanagers: You have been head of Ecofi Investissements for about 7 years. In other words, you took over the firm just before the onset of the financial crisis. Has this crisis situation made responsible investment more attractive? Christophe Couturier: The financial crisis has raised awareness. What was the impact of this increased awareness on subscriptions? It must be admitted that the impact has been modest. More than ever, therefore, we need to continue on the path of responsible investment, in order to develop ethical products. Newsmanagers: How do you explain this ongoing reticence with respect to responsible investment? Christophe Couturier: There has been an increase in awareness, but it has not culminated in action. This means that some reticence remains. I think that there is a little hesitance about returns, as socially responsible investment (SRI) is thought to perform less well than traditional investment. This is not true. Many studies have shown that. In the past 10 or 15 years, the performance of SRI investments are equivalent to traditional investments. I do not say that performance is better, but that it is equivalent. Therefore, if the financial returns over a few years are equivalent, there are no longer any reasons to hesitate. We have everything to gain from investing in businesses that promote ESG criteria when their approach can help to make their activities be more sustainable – for example, in light of all the elements of social responsibility, respect for clients, employees, providers and the environment. But, though inflows are not coming in, we have nonetheless noted increased pressure on management. Investors’ view of corporate management has evolved such that directors are now required to take them into account. Rather than taking a controversial decision, “responsible” management will tend to take a decision which is more respectful og ESG criteria. Also, there has been a fairly noticeable change in the behaviour of businesses due to political pressure, such as a rise in the percentage of women on boards of directors. Newsmanagers: What are the results of your responsible management in terms of assets? Christophe Couturier: We hae nonetheless posted positive inflows for the year as a whole. Our assets under management as of the end of Decemner totalled about EUR6.5bn, compared with EUR6.4bn one year previously. Also, it must be pointed out that 60% of assets are invested in money markets, and that we have a very cautious client base, historically, with regard to risk. We are also 30% invested in bonds, and 10% in equities. The social economy is not about taking risks. Newsmanagers: What are your priorities for the general shareholders’ meeting season in 2013? Christophe Couturier: In addition to general principle, we are planning to analyse each case closely. It is important to look at the objectives of each resolution. For example, double voting rights do not necessarily seem to be something that must always be condemned. We would like to help companies grow. Double voting rights can promote the long-term development of the business. We therefore have a pragmatic approach, and only detailed analysis of the context of the resolution can guide us in our evaluation. We will also be highly attentive this year to transparency about management pay scales.