“Flexible management will become an offensive weapon”


P { margin-bottom: 0.08in; } Newsmanagers: How is your asset management firm evolving, and what clients do your products win over exactly? Louis Bert: We have assets of nearly EUR300m, and we have recorded inflows of EUR10m last year. In addition to independent financial advisers and private banks, via multi-management or mandates, we have institutional investors among our clients who already represent 40% of our assets under management. In addition to that, we have clients that we did not think we would be able to reach, from the world of wealth management, many of whom lost money in the crisis. They are looking for another type of relationship with their asset management firm, and we have for two or three years been working on that, and they have placed about EUR15m with us. Newsmanagers: What does your fund range look like? Louis Bert: Our range consists of four funds, two of which are pure asset allocation: Dorval Convictions and Dorval Convictions PEA. The latter is a fund of fund, similar to the former, but managed dynamically with live securities and money market funds. In addition to these mutual funds, there are two other funds which combine strategic allocation and tactical alloction: Dorval Flexible monde and Dorval Flexible Emergents. Theyse integrate other assets than equities and money markets, such as debt, etc. They are noticeably different funds, even though the investment process remains identical. Newsmanagers: Your risk management must please institutional investors... Louis Bert: We have seen a rebound in interest on the part of institutional investors who were disappointed in the behaviour of alternative management. We offer them tactical allocation to the euro zone, and more fluidity. And our performance can win them over due to the larger scale of the crises they have been through. Dorval Convictions gained 3.29% in 2008, when the Eurostoxx 50 index lost 44.4%. And the fund lost 9.6% in 2011 when the euro zone index lost 17.1%. Newsmanagers: Your returns are good, but they are in periods of crisis. In rising periods, doesn’t flexible management run the risk of penalizing invetors, as in 2012, when Dorval Convictions captured 79% of gains on the market, though it must be admitted that some competitors did even less well? Louis Bert: Our flexible management has stood out in recent years for its defensive character. But I would remind you that we were then in a period of systemic risks, which prevented us from doing differently. We think, however, that since last summer, the period of crisis has ended, and the survival of the euro zone is no longer in question. As a result, flexible management is at the point identified for re-exposure to equity markets. We have been beating the market since the beginning of this year. Flexibility will become an offensive weapon. As to the results for some of our competitors, there is real and false flexible management. We, for our part, are flexible by conviction, and that is undoubtedly where our difference lies. Newsmanagers: What conclusions do you draw from the euro zone equity markets at the beginning of this year? Louis Bert: My conviction is that we will see years of returns. At last! Managing in a bear market is annoying, even when you have good results. The year 2013 will be dedicated to stock-picking, since the exit from the euro zone crisis won’t happen all at once. We will have several speeds. Newsmanagers: You confirm that it is a good time to be investing, despite the rise we have already seen late last year? Louis Bert: Yes, the entry point is not a problem for clients, since flexible management lets us manage its place. We act like an airbag in some ways. We know that we will not change the nature of the investment, which is to invest when the market has risen, and this is an essential element. So we need to adapt to it. The inverse is illusory.