Edhec raises questions about effectiveness of “say on pay”


P { margin-bottom: 0.08in; } “Say on pay” may not have been the panacaea one had thought it to be. The principle was established in 15 countries of the European Union, with various formulations. And it merited simplicity: all remuneration to directors and holders of elected positions, including both set and variable pay, subject to a shareholder vote.In France, the Assemblée Nationale has released a report on the mission to gather information on transparency and governance at major businesses, which includes 20 proposals to set up more responsible governance for long-term strategies, including a French proposal for say on pay.Does “say on pay” need to be introduced for French businesses? Frédéric Palomino, a researcher in economics at the Edhec Business School, says the answer is not beyond doubt. “Say on pay” is a deliberate failure. In a position paper entitled “Remuneration of corporate management: What can we expect from say on pay?” Palomino reviews the various models which have already been established internationally for several years, for which the number of observations is wide, but the conclusions that can be drawn about the effectiveness of say on pay is based on anecdotal observations.The various empirical studies undertaken in countries where the principle has been established show that the measure does not modify pay scales. In the case of the United Kingdom, where a vote on compensation, which is genuinely non-binding, has been in place for a decade, a Feri and Maber study (2012) finds that the establishment of say on pay did not influence the rate of growth of pay scales. Say on pay resulted in a larger disparity between management pay scales, but did not have an influence on the average level.Say on pay is generally received with scpeticism by actors. The only positive aspect of say on pay appears to be corrections for extreme situations at businesses at which returns are poor and pay is abnormally high.As a result, it is legitimate to ask questions about regulations which lead to additional administrative cost for all businesses, at a time when it will only allow for some extreme cases to be corrected.