Henderson adds to teams in Asia and London


P { margin-bottom: 0.08in; } In the wake of the recruitment of its new US Credit team in Philadelphia, announced on 13 February, Henderson Global Investors on 26 February announced that it has added to its teams in Singapore and London. All of these recruitments, in the United States, Europe and Asia, aim to strengthen the presence of Henderson Global Investors internationally, in order to develop global solutions to serve the needs of international clients. In Asia, Yann Ling Wong joined the real estate equity team for Asia-Pacific at the end of December as an analyst. She will be based in Singapore, and will report to Tim Gibson. The recruitment comes less than 3 months afte the appointment of Shiro Tsubota, CEO for Japan, and Mabel Chan, Director of Disribution for Asia. Ling had previously been involved in the development of sales centres and banking services at Standard Chartered Bank. The Real Estate Equity Asia-Pacific team plans to develop its presence selectively on a highly competitive market, where valuation levels are considered attractive and can respond to a rise in appetite for risk on the part of investors. Overall, the Asia-Pacific real estate equity team has USD1bn in assets under management, of which USD423m are managed in the Henderson Horizon Asia-Pacific Property Equities. In London, Paul O’Connor joined Henderson Global Investors on 28 January as head of multi-management. O’Connor will report to Bill McQuaker, and will be responsible for asset allocation for several funds of the multi-management range, as well as the development of products and services for investors. O’Connor had previusly been head of allocation for the Europe, Middle East and Africa region at Mercer Investment Consulting, and worked as a strategist and proprietary trader at Credit Suisse for 14 years. This is the second recruitment in a month for the multi-management team at Henderson Global Investors, which in December acquired a new senior manager, James de Bunsen, who joined from Armstrong Investment Managers. The multi-management team at Henderson Global Investors has over GBP5.4bn in asstes under management.