Long-term investment green book to be published in a few weeks


P { margin-bottom: 0.08in; } The long-term investment green book will be published in a few weeks, the European commissioner in charge of the internal market and services, Michel Barnier, announced on 21 February at a FESE-CFA round table on “financing long-term investment in the European economy.” A public consultation will be launched with the objective of “supporting the broadest and deepest debate possible on the best ways to remove barriers to long-term investment, and translate good ideas into concrete political proposals,” Barnier says. Without disclosing the contents of the green book, he has laid out four areas of reflection which may “usefully be opened.” Firstly, it is a good idea to evaluate the capacity of financial institutions to channel savings to long-term investment projects. In terms of banks, “we need to continue to minutiously calibrate our prudential rules in order to avoid any negative repercussions on long-term financing,” Barnier says. The European commissioner also pointed out the role which other financial institutions can play from this perspective, also in a long-term perspective, such as insurance companies, reinsurers and pension funds. A second area for reflection is the efficiency of financial markets and intermediation of investment. Beyond the impact of the revised MIF directive for long-term investment, Barnier pointed to reflections about means and developing bond markets in Europe to breathe new life into securitisation markets, which in particular requires “setting up the necessary incitements to investment over long periods of time, adopting appropriate benchmarks, and ensuring that credit ratings are not limited to an annual horizon.” The third area for reflection is access to financing for SMEs. Beyond European proposals for venture capital funds, which would become official in March, Barnier suggests other areas for reflection, including opportunities to create a special accounting regime for publicly-traded SMEs to improve access to fiancing, including long-term. The last area for reflection is the role of public institutions, for example, in tax incentives for long-term investment, which include taxation of companies and savings.