Planned FTT would have “devastating consequences,” says AFG


The French financial management association (AFG) has reacted vividly to a planned tax on financial transactions which the European Commission has recently plassed. The French asset management industry “solemnly” draws attention to the “devastating consequences” of the planned legislation. = Firstly, the planned law “targets savings and not speculation,” though the initial objective for the FTT was to fight speculative financial activities. French mutual funds would be very severely affected and in some cases would disappear: they would be subject to a “double” taxation, since their clients would be required to pay a tax when they sell shares in the fund, even though purchases and sales of shares by mutual funds were already taxed. Money market and bond mutual funds would have negative returns just due to the tax, or in the best case, would have extremely low returns. Many categories of fund would disappear from the French market. Furthermore, the planned laws “do not meet their budgetary objectives and destroy jobs,” as “transactions would move outside the ‘increased cooperation’ zone, and outside the Union.” Budgetary resources and jobs in countries concerned would be penalised. Lastly, the AFG claims, the law “restricts movement.” Unlike what the Commission’s document says, the law would create highly significant distortions in competition, and significant concerns for savings clients in the European Union, including businesses and governmennts which issuer debt in the Union, and the asset management industries in the Union, whether or not they are domiciled in the country which is establishing the tax. In order to conserve international clients, French asset management will have no choice but to domicile its funds and mandates, and to undertake its financial management, in countries which are not subject to the tax. “The French asset management industry would like talks to take place immediately at the Council, in consultation with the European Parliament, to develop plans that are not subject to these criticisms, the statement concludes.