Brazil’s Bradesco AM launches its first funds in France


Bradesco Asset Management, the asset management affiliate of one of the largest banks in Brazil, has received a license to release its Luxembourg-registered Sicav Bradesco Global Funds in France, according to information received by Newsmanagers. The product range from the asset management firm, which is currently composed of three funds, is focused on its home market, Brazil. The largest product by assets (USD93.5m) is the Brazilian Equities Mid Small Caps, a Brazilian small and midcaps fund. Currently, its manager has a preference for shares which benefit from economic growth in the country. The second-largest fund by size if the Brazilian Hard Currency Bond Fund USD, a fund of Brazilian government bonds denominated in US dollars. “The choice of the US currency allows the fund to avoid a 6% tax on foreign investments in local bond funds,” Bradesco AM says. Lastly, the third fund is also a bond fund, but this one denominated in local currency. With assets of USD33.1m, the Brazilian Fied Income fund invests in Brazilian debt, issued by public and private issuers. It is also exempt from the 6% tax. With its first funds licensed for sale in France (two others will follow), Bradesco AM will be able to serve France from London, where the firm has constructed a team dedicated to international development. Ileana Salas, head for Europe and the Middle East, will be responsible for the French market. This effort in France comes as part of a foreign expansion by Bradesco AM. The funds have also recently been licensed for sale in the United Kingdom. The strategy was seeded in 2009 with the creation of the Luxembourg Sicav, and was followed in late 2010 by the opening of an office in London. The Sicav has about USD200m in assets, which is still a drop in the water compared with total assets under management by the Brazilian asset management firm, which had USD141bn as of the end of December, and has many pension funds among its clients.