Index of human rights performance of companies launched


A group of investors, an NGO, a think tank and an investor research agency, today announce the launch of the first wide-scale project to rank companies on their human rights performance. A total of 500 of the top global companies from four key sectors - Agriculture, ICT, Apparel, and Extractives - will initially be researched and ranked. “The Corporate Human Rights Benchmark (CHRB) will harness the competitive nature of the markets to drive better human rights performance, namely through developing a transparent, publicly available and credible benchmark,” according to a press release. Over the next three years the six organisations, making up the CHRB Steering Group, will conduct a worldwide consultation on the methodology and results with diverse stakeholders, and incrementally collect and release information on 500 companies’ human rights performance. Information will be made available through an open source, online portal to empower the range of business and human rights advocates among companies, investors, governments, local communities and NGOs."Our ranking will reward good practice by companies, and create a major incentive for poor performers to improve rapidly. The ranking will be a tool for campaigners, trade unions, investors and governments to encourage and press companies to deliver respect, dignity and essential freedoms to their workers, neighbouring communities, and the societies in which they invest,» said Phil Bloomer of Business and Human Rights Resource Centre.Steve Waygood of Aviva Investors added : «Our Benchmark will introduce a positive competitive environment as companies try to race to the top of the annual ranking.» The Benchmark portal will be housed on the Business and Human Rights Resource Centre website at: http://business-humanrights.org/en/corporate-human-rights-benchmark&nbs… partners are the following:• Aviva Investors is a global asset management business dedicated to building and providing client focused solution and part of Aviva plc, one of the UK’s largest insurance services providers.• Business and Human Rights Resource Centre is an international NGO that tracks the human rights impacts (positive & negative) of over 5600 companies in over 180 countries making information available on its seven language website. • Calvert Investments is an investment management firm and leader in sustainable and responsible investment strategies. • EIRIS is a global leader in the provision of environmental, social, governance (ESG) research for responsible investors.• The Institute for Human Rights and Business is a global «think and do» tank that provides a trusted, impartial space for dialogue and independent analysis to deepen understanding of human rights challenges and the appropriate role of business. • VBDO is the Dutch association of investors for sustainable development that aims at a sustainable capital market, considering financial as well as non-financial ESG criteria.