AXA IM reshuffles its fixed income and structured finance teams


Axa Investment Managers on Monday announced the reorganisation of its fixed income and structured finance teams and the creation of a new fixed income and structured finance department. The new arrangement will report into John Porter, global head of fixed income & structured finance. The fixed income & structured finance division is now structured into five broad investment streams: Active Fixed Income – encompassing all actively managed strategies – including traditional benchmarked, total return and strategic, Buy and Maintain Fixed Income, encompassing all long-term low-turnover solutions for third party pension scheme and insurance clients – including SmartBeta Credit and accounting constrained, Solutions – a new team under the leadership of Jean-Louis Laforge which brings portfolio engineering and credit research together with a Solutions Strategy team responsible for designing solutions across the credit continuum, AXA Group – a dedicated team led by Gilles Dauphine focused on our work with AXA Group, and Structured Finance – organised around two platforms: Loans & Private Debt and Securitised & Structured Assets and led by Deborah Shire. Chris Iggo, CIO and head of fixed income Europe & Asia, leads the European, Asian and global teams within buy and maintain fixed income and active fixed income, with the US teams reporting into Carl Whitbeck, head of fixed income US. Structured Finance will be organised around two platforms: Loans & Private Debt and Securitised & Structured Assets, with each one split between a traded assets part and an illiquid assets part. Alexandre Martin Min will co-head Securitised & Structured Assets, with responsibility for traded assets. He will also lead the transversal strategy dedicated to integrating structured finance assets into fixed income blended products along the credit continuum. Within Alexandre’s team, Gaelle Philippe will be responsible for ABS Europe and existing ABS products.Christophe Fritsch will co-head Securitised & Structured Assets, responsible for illiquid assets and the business development of this platform. He will continue to lead the ILS team that he started in 2007 and today has an AuM of USD506 million, but Francois Divet will take on the direct responsibility for the ILS team.Jean Philippe Levilain will co-head the Loans & Private Debt platform for traded assets and will be responsible for delivering our leveraged loan expertise in funds, mandates and CLOs, with a team split between Europe and US. He launched our first CLO post crisis in the US in 2014.Renaud Tourmente will co-head the Loans & Private Debt platform, with a direct responsibility for the illiquid assets, including the mid cap platform that he launched over 2 years ago.Finally, Laurent Cezard will head the business development team for the Loans and Private Debt Platform. Commenting on the changes, John Porter, global head of fixed income & structured finance at AXA IM said: «The reorganisation of these teams and the closer collaboration between Structured Finance and Fixed Income will enable us to provide clients with solutions across the entire credit continuum. This set up will enable us to diversify our product suite creating assets that clients would not normally be able to access on their own and enabling them to trade off liquidity or complexity for yield, which appears very attractive proposition in today’s low yield environment. Our agility, experience and specialist expertise across the credit continuum mean that we should be incredibly well placed to respond to the changed market environment and meet evolving client needs.»