Global investors have a restored appetite for risk


Global investors have a restored appetite for risk amid greater optimism over the outlook for profits and the economy, according to the latest BofA Merrill Lynch Fund Manager Survey. An overall total of 214 panelists with USD569 billion of assets under management participated in the survey from 7 November to 13 November 2014.A net 47 percent of the global panel expects the economy to strengthen in the year ahead, a rise from a net 33 percent in October. Investors have expressed similar positivity over profits – a net 42 percent say that global corporate profits will improve in the coming year, up from a net 27 percent last month. Investors have signaled that their optimism has been translating into action over recent weeks. In October, a net 16 percent of the panel said they were taking lower than normal levels of risk. This month, a net 2 percent are taking above-normal risk. The proportion taking out protection against a sharp fall in equities in the coming three months has fallen to a net -39 percent from a net -35 percent. In this context, asset allocators have shifted out of cash and increased their allocations to equities. A net 13 percent of respondents to the global survey are overweight cash in November, down from a net 27 percent in October. The proportion of asset allocators overweight equities has risen by 12 percentage points to a net 46 percent. Hedge funds have also increased their net allocations to equities – 43 percent of surveyed hedge funds are net long equities, up from 35 percent one month ago. Japan is the region most in favor; a net 45 percent of global asset allocators are overweight Japan, a rise from a net 32 percent in October and a net 23 percent in September. In the meantime, investors are sending mixed signals about appetite towards Europe. “European stocks were recently boosted by the best earnings season in three years. However concerns over longevity of growth and deflation continue. Three wise themes of yield, quality, and large cap are the best places to hide in European stocks,” said Manish Kabra, European equity and quantitative strategist. Real Estate allocations have reached the highest overweight recorded since its inclusion in the survey in 2006.