Euro money market funds approaching negative yields


p { margin-bottom: 0.1in; line-height: 120%; } Money market funds denominated in euros may earn negative yields in the next few weeks, the ratings agency Moody’s estimates in a study entitled “ Negative yields alone will not trigger downgrades of Euro Money Funds.” The persistent low interest rate environment and the decision by the European Central Bank to reduce its deposit rate to -0.2% in September 2014 have significantly eroded returns for money market funds denominated in euros, the agency explains. As a result, returns for most money market funds denominated in euros are now near zero, despite the fact that managers have already renounced all or part of their management fees. “The question is not whether money market funds denominated in euros will be earning negative yields, but rather when,” says Marina Cremonese, assistance vice president, analyst and co-author of the Moody’s study. “The timing will depend on the structure of each portfolio and on commission policies. Investors will then have to choose between paying for the safety and liquidity of money market funds, or to invest in products with positive returns with a low liquidity level and higher-risk credit profiles,” she adds. However, Moody’s considers that negative yields from money market funds alone will not be enough to trigger ratings downgrades. Funds which are able to operate in an environment of negative yields, and to continue to keep investment promises made to their shareholders, will probably not experience changes to their ratings, the ratings agency claims, on the condition that the quality of credit in their portfolios remains compatible with their current rating. “However, negative yields will put pressure on fund managers to change their investment strategies, to generate higher returns, which could then put pressure on the ratings of funds,” suggests Vanessa Robert, senior credit officer and co-author of the study at Moody’s. Managers will probably add credit and/or duration risks in order to generate positive returns.”