Long-term investors in push for infrastructure asset class


p { margin-bottom: 0.1in; line-height: 120%; } Due to the continued interest in infrastructure investment expressed at the most recent G20 summit in Australia, Meridian, Allianz Global Investors, Skandia Mutual Life Insurance Company and the Development Bank of Japan have founded the Association of Infrastructure Long-Term Investors, or AILTI. The first meeting of the assocation will be held in Paris on 17 October. It will be opened by Michel Sapin, minister of finance and public accounts, and Emmanual Macron, minister of the economy, industry and digital. The association, combining the expertise of private long-term infrastructure investors and public institutions, represents a platform to meet additional investment volume of nearly USD2.000bn expected in the infrastructure sector. “Infrastructure represents a natural choice for our clients, since it meets their needs to make the long-term payments with stable cash flow that infrastructure projects provide. At a time when the infrastructure sector is growing rapidly, it is essential for us to develop a strong voice for the industry which offers the parties concerned an equally long-term vision of the challenges and opportunities in the sector,” says Deborah Zurkow, chief investment officer for infrastructure debt at Allianz GI. The association aims to be the preferred interlocutor to represent the voice of long-term infrastructure investors to regulators and public authorities, to increase the attractiveness of the new infrastructure asset class, and to promote good socially responsible investment practices that benefit the population. “Amundi is firmly convinced that the responsibilities of asset managers exceed the purely financial aspect. We are aware of the growing importance of environmental, social and governance (ESG) practices, and we have chosen to integrate them into our analysis and investment practices. The emphasis placed by the association of long-term infrastructure investors on ESG criteria comes as part of the diversity of our asset management activities with respect to our various interlocutors,” says Pedro Antonio Arias, head of specialised management (private equity and real estate) at Amundi. The association will combine university research with the construction of a benchmark to compare infrastructure to other asset classes, and will establish an unlisted infrastructure index, which will provide information about returns and volatility on the basis of data collected from members of the association. The association, registered in Paris as an international non-profit organisation, has the logistical and administrative support of Meridiam for the first 18 months of its development.