Retirement&nbsp;: French savers want safe investments and high returns


Natixis Global Asset Management today published the results of its 1st annual survey of French individual investors with financial assets of between €75,000 and €300,000 held in banks*. This survey of 984 clients of French banks was conducted in July 2014. Retirement is a major concern for French individual investors. They entertain ambitious financial objectives with a view to maintaining their lifestyle. Retirement is a priority for over 70% of savers. Concretely, 64% of them save money in view of retirement, while 8% intend to do so. 69% do not believe that retirement pensions alone will be enough to allow them to maintain a reasonable lifestyle. When asked to estimate retirement needs, one of every two investors stated that at least an additional thousand euros per month would be necessary to live comfortably, while one of five stated at least €1,500. To feel reasonably secure, 3/4 would like to have saved at least €100,000 towards retirement. According to Christine Lacoste, Head of network development at Natixis Asset Management, “The results of the survey confirm that when faced with questions concerning the future of pay-as-you-go retirement, creating long-term savings is more than ever a major concern for French savers.” pay-as-you-go retirement, creating long-term savings is more than ever a major concern for French savers.” But these objectives are irreconcilable with the extremely safe investment strategies adopted. Savers who have put in place a financial strategy for retirement opted for safe or known investments: term deposits and passbook savings accounts (33%), life insurance in euros or units of account (28%). Less than 10% of the individual investors questioned opted for financial or stock market investments. Retirement specific products were even less popular: only 16% subscribed to an individual pension plan. Christine Lacoste stated “It is unfortunate that these savers overlook the potential for performance offered by financial investments over the long term. Yet, against the background of very low interest rates and returns, preparation for retirement should involve a more dynamic investment approach, with a portion of savings being allocated to financial markets, and reasonable risk.” performance offered by financial investments over the long term. Yet, against the background of very low interest rates and returns, preparation for retirement should involve a more dynamic investment approach, with a portion of savings being allocated to financial markets, and reasonable risk.”