Recovery confirmed on European merger and acquisition markets


p { margin-bottom: 0.1in; line-height: 120%; } The European merger and acquisition market is recovering this year. According to the quarterly Towers Watson merger and acquisition Observer, carried out in partnership with the Cass Business School (City University, London), the number of merger-acquisition transactions completed for over USD100m has increased significantly in Europe. More precisely, in second quarter, 34 transactions for over USD100m were registered, a record for the region for more than two years. The same is not true of other regions of the globe. Half of operations finalised this quarter were performed in North America, but volumes remain low compared with the previous three quarters for the region. In Asia-Pacific, transaction volumes continue to increase, but they are below the European levels for the first time in one year. Nonetheless, everywhere in the world, the Observer indicates, “buyers are far outperforming the market. The trend is particuarly clear in Asia-Pacific, where companies undertaking futures operations had on the date in question earned financial returns for the year of over 23.1 percentage points (pp) by the regional index. In the same period, North American buyers also outperformed by 6.2 pp (a figure altogether in line with the previous period in 2013), while European buyers have earned returns higher than their benchmark, at 3.1 pp. Worldwide, buyers have outperformed the market index by 7.9 pp for the past year.” Intersectoral transactions have earned better returns than those performed within a single sector. Although the two types of transactions both outperformed the index, the performance of intersectoral transactions was higher than the index at 15.8 pp for the year, while intersectoral transactions only surpassed the index far more modestly, by 4.4 pp. The largest transactions (those with a value of over USD1bn) outperformed mid-sized transactions (for less than a value of USD1bn). “The former outperformed the index by 8.8 pp, and the latter by only 7.3 pp for the past year,” Towers Watson states.