FBF in Brussels unveils a roadmap to promote growth


p { margin-bottom: 0.1in; line-height: 120%; } The French banking federation (Fédération Bancaire Française, FBF) has sent a document to Brussels and to new European parliament members, in which it proposes courses of action to contribute to the considerations of European regulators for the years 2014-2019. After noting that Europe has put in place major reforms, including the banking union and the banking crisis resolution system, the Federation calls on European institutions to set themselves the objective of returning to growth and competitiveness of businesses. In practice, FBF has identified four priorities for effective European action in the area of financial services, in the interest of all economic actors: 1. Promote financing to restart the European economy. This challenge will require measures to facilitate long-term financing and high-quality securitisation, better use of European savings, the abundance of which is an advantage for the competitiveness of businesses, the preservation of the European mode of financing based on credit, and the role of universal banks, assistance in development, and the use of markets to finance businesses. 2. Launch a global impact sutdy of regulations concerning financing of the economy 3. Better regulate the “parallel banking system,” which is put in place for the security of clients, and work toward equal competition in all sectors of financing activities. 4. Adopt online account-keeping in line with European realities, to strengthen European sovereignty in the domain of accounting standards, and improve IFRS adoption mechanisms in Europe. The FBF has also called for vigilance in the regulation now in progress. “New international projects such as hedging of bank portfolios for interest rate risks or the setting of excessively strict leverage ratio can weigh down the capacity of the banking sector to finance the economy. In addition, two current bills – separation of banking activities, and taxation of European financial transactions – would be considerable handicaps for economic activities and financing of European businesses, in contradiction with the objective of returning to growth in Europe.”