Major challenges await post-recovery global asset management industry


p { margin-bottom: 0.1in; line-height: 120%; } Satisfaction is short-lived, according to the findings of the twelfth edition of the Boston Consulting Group (BCG) survey of asset management, published yesterday. Among satisfactions, BCG lists the global value of assets under managemnet of EUR51.700trn in 2013, with profits for the sector in absolute terms of EUR70bn, or only 7% less than before the crisis. Pre-tax operating profits represent 30% of net income in 2013, compared with 41% in 2007. Although BCG is careful to note that these are the best results since the financial crisis for asset management, it also points out that asset management firms need to show vigilance, as appearances can be deceiving. Firstly, the growth in assets in 2013 was largely due to a performance effect. Although this was the largest since the crisis, at 1.6% of assets as of the end of 2012, net inflows represent only a modest part of total growth. Another major trend is that traditional asset management is losing ground nearly everywhere, to solutions, specialities, passive strategies and alternative products. These captured a significant proportion of inflows. BCG also notes other challenges which it calls varied, complex and costly, such as a preference for non-traditional assets, new regulations, and digital evolution. Meanwhile, the study also notes major disparities between regions and within geographical regions. “In 2013,” it notes, the gap closed between North America and Europe in growth, with growth twice as fast in the former region (16%) than in the latter (7%). Growth in assets under management in North America and Asia (ex Japan) stood at about 14% to 16%, compared with an average of 8% in Latin America, and 7% in Europe. Once again, “in regional terms, there are important differences, particularly between European countries,” BCG finds: “growth in assets under management is 10% in Italy, and 11% in the United Kingdom, but 5% in Germany and 3% in France.” “Asset management remains a highly profitable industry, with profit margins in 2013 near those before the crisis,” says Hélène Donnadieu, co-author of the report and project director specialised in asset management at BCG. Asset management firms still need to confront challenges related to size. Internationalization is one of these. “Management firms need to be able to grow outside their domestic markets, like the British and American players, who bed on development outside their own borders,” BCG says, noting that this strategy allowed asset management firms in the United Kingdom to benefit from 50% growth in their assets under management between 2007 and 2013, when their domestic market was seeing growth of only 32%. However, the study suggets that this international growth is not without its consequences. It requires evolving industrial platforms, operating models and IT infrastructure. “A global platform makes it possible to better respond to the needs of local clients, to reduce risks, and to have a better cost/efficiency ratio over the long term,” says Benoît Macé, coauthor of the report and managing partner at the Paris office.