EFAMA unveils its priorities for the coming year


p { margin-bottom: 0.1in; line-height: 120%; } Growth in assets is on the horizon again, but vigilance remains essential. The asset management sector last year saw its largest growth since the bursting of the financial bubble, Christian Dargnat, head of the European fund and asset management association (EFAMA), said over the weeking at the association’s annual general assembly. Of course, the regulatory issues, PRIPS, MiFID directive, UCITS V and the impact of their implementation are still among the major concerns of the professional association. However, the outlooks for the sector are generally good, and Dargnat reveals that despite the traumas of the financial crisis, several studies are now predicting growth in assets under management of about USD100tr by 2020, which would correspond to a pace of growth of about 6% per year over the coming years. Although emerging markets will capture a large part of this growth, Europe is nonetheless expected to post average growth of about 3% per year over the next few years. Investors have new expectations, however, that asset management firms will have to try to meet. The continuing growth of low-cost beta solutions and alternative strategies illustrate a structural change in the market. The growing popularity of these asset classes is expected to continue. Dargnat presented the priority areas for the association in the coming year, including the need to speak with a unified voice, the institution of viable solutions for long-term investment, promotion of the asset management sector in its role in financing the economy, and the protection of the end investor. Citing a need to rebuild trust, Dargnat emphasized that “more than ever, EFAMA has a key role to play in facilitating the development of the asset management sector and protecting the interests of the final investor and the members of EFAMA.” Aggregate assets under management by EFAMA member companies total about EUR17trn, or 1.5 times the GDP of the European Union.