Socially responsible investment still has some way to go


P { margin-bottom: 0.08in; } The potential capacity of investors to exercise a positive influence on the economy, the environment and society by investing responsibly remains largely unexploited, according to a report released by 11 top calibre financial actors with a total of over USD5trn in assets under management as of the end of March 2014. The participating financial actors are Allianz Global Investors, Aviva Global Investors, First State Investments, Loomis Sayles, Mirova, Nordea Life & Pensions, PensionDanmark, PIMCO, Standard Life Investments, TIAA-CREF Asset Management and Zurich Insurance Group. These actors, who include both asset management firms and institutional investors, are part of the Investment Leaders Group (ILG) established by the University of Cambridge Institute for Sustainability Leadership (CISL). This working group is supported by eminent financial economises from the Cambridge Judge Business School. The new report, entitled “The Value of Responsible Investment,” points out that the actual economy continues to rely on the natural capital in the world, rather than depending on the interest it procures. It identifies a need for the financial sector to collectively define a clear orientation, based on “moral, financial and economic arguments that justify this action.” Philippe Zaouati, CEO of Mirova, a socially responsible investment affiliate of Natixis Asset Management, and chairman of ILG, explains: “Despite a general rhetorical engagement in favour of principles for responsible investment, the market dynamic remains preoccupied by the short term, and for the most part, investors harlyd help to respond to the current challenges. The ILG is seeking to modify this situation, firstly by defining the value of responsible investmnt, and then by finding means to promote it.” The report identifies several measures that financial actors can take to optimize their investment opportunities, with the objective of producing positive effects in matters of society, environment and governance: Carry out targeted research in order to identify the extent to which risks sustained by environmental “mega-trends” drag down economic performance and limit future returns. Continue to seize numerous tactical opportunities in order to support responsible investments. For example: harmonized reporting about environmental and social impact, mandates for long-term management, demonstrating an alignment of fiduciary obligation and ESG integration. Increase investment in technology, infrastructure and business models for a future low-CO2-emissions “green” economy. This will be based on solid investment principles and clear assistance for political decision makers. DR. Jake Reynolds, director of Business Platforms at CISL, says: “In a world which neglects the integration of social and environmental costs into corporate balance sheets, in which we know that costs can eventually affect the value of the business, socially responsible investment may be considered not only a relevant strategy, but also a potential response to growing sources of systemic risk.”