LuxFLAG creates a pan-European ESG label


One more actor in fund ratings is turning to socially responsible investment. The Luxembourg Fund Labelling Agency (LuxFLAG) is preparing to announced on Wednesday, 21 May that it is launching a label dedicated to environmental, social and governance (ESG) funds. This distinction is presented as the first in Europe by Thomas Seale, chairman of LuxFlag, in an interview with Newsmanagers, which explains the expected presence of the Luxembourg minister of finance. In practice, LuxFlag is planning to give a clear definition to the ESG market, by structuring this universe. The label, which will be reserved for UCITS and AIFMD Funds domiciled throughout Europe or in equivalent jurisdictions, does not intend to impose strict ESG rules. However, it will make an effort to validate a process at asset management firms, by ensuring that word and deed go hand in hand. “Each manager has a different approach to ESG,” explains Seale, “and we will aim to check that what is practiced by the asset management firm is truly compliant with what is really done.” Funds must have a policy of exclusion, and assets will be examined according to ESG criteria. The OPCVM will also have to publish its full portfolio at least once per year, and must assign an external auditor to provide proof of compliance with LuxFLAG criteria. At the conclusion of the audit, the label, valid for one year, will be issued by the board of directors at LuxFLAG, also on the basis of a recommendation from an eligibility committee, composed of personalities such as the chairman of Ethix SRI Edvisors Sweden, a sustainable development adviser, and the head of the civil and corporate responsibility division of the Europan Investment Bank. At any rate, the labels represent a considerable extension of the field of research for LuxFlag. The firm had previously been present largely in the world of microfinance. It has issued 30 labels, for coverage of over 50% of assets invested in funds worldwide, according to Seale. For three years, LuxFlag has also diversified to attach the market on the environmental criteria alone, for which it has already issued 10 labels. In the short term, no objective in figures has been set, such as for the number of companies to convince of the attractiveness of its offer. However, referring to the figures in the report KPMG RI Fund Survey 2013, which counts 1,135 ESG funds in Europe, with nearly EUR200bn in assets under management, the agency is betting on strong growth continuing for this family of funds, “to the point that this selection criterion will become only one.” Meanwhile, three asset management firms have already applied for the new ESG Label: two Scandinavian, Nordea and Sparinvest, and one French, OFI Asset Management.