Towards another rally on the Japanese stock market in second half


Yutaka Uda at E.I. Sturdza Investment Funds predicts another rising phase for the Japanese stock market. The manager of the Nippon Growth Fund, whose UCITS version has about USD200m in assets, estimates that the current prudence of investors, related to an increase in VAT from 5% to 8% from 1 April, will be likely to die down in the next few weeks at major measures are announced, and the good performance of the Japanese economy is confirmed. “The sentiment of Japanese investors and consumers has deterioated recently in the wake of a rise in consumer tax. From my point of view, the fears of a recession are exaggerated and the growth of the economy remains very solid despite the temporary impacts of the tax,” Uda told Newsmangers on 7 May on a visit to Paris. The tax rise has had only a moderate impact on the activity due to corrective measures taken by the government, Uda says. Uda also estimates that a growing shortage of labour is driving salaries up, which will be likely to offset the rise in consumer tax. At large businesses this year the highest increase in salary since 1999 has already been observed. Capital investment is also expected to rise, at least partly to offset the shortage in labour. The signs are also very positive for construction. Orders and unit prices are rising. The earthquake in Sendai has set off a replacement of anqiduated property stock, and after two decades of downturn, public works are regaining some strength also. In addition, the prospects of the Olympic games in Tokyo in 2020 will now require programmes to improve the highway networks and the construction of receiving structures. Alongside this gradual improvement in conjuncture, Uda estimates that the month of June will bring a new breath of life to the Japanese market, for at least two reasons. Firstly, the government is expected to state its growth strategy next month, with new measures to include a decline of about 10 percentage points in the corporate tax to 25% from 2015. The health, labour and social affairs minister is also expected to announce recommendations concerning asset allocation for the Japanese public pension fund, GPIF, which has about JPY130,000 under management, or over EUR910m. Exposure to Japanese bonds is expected to be reduced to 40%, compared with 60% previously, while equities are expected to rise from 12% to 20%. The major turnover to equities has already begun. The impact of these recommendations, which is already considerable considering the assets in question, is expected to be accentuated by the fact that three pension funds (public servants and teachers), with total assets of about JPY50trn, will be merged into the GPIF in October 2015. The question that remains is the pace at which all these measures will be put in place. Uda is persuaded nonetheless that the climate will improve. “The month of June will represent a turning point for the market,” the Japanese manager says; he sees the signs of a new rally on Japanese equities.