“Behavioural finance includes a form of discipline in management, a virtuous element”


P { margin-bottom: 0.08in; } Newsmanagers: What would you say about the past year in terms of assets and inflows? Muriel Tailhades du Châtelier: It has been a very good year, which is a clear inflection for CCR AM, The distribution has also been very balanced in terms of clients. Assets distributed by CCR AM increased by +15.9% to a total of EUR6.497bn as of the end of December. Net inflows to asset management total +EUR465m, largely due to strong inflows from the institutional segment and private banking clients at UBS. Inflows not including money market products totalled EUR192.8bn, largely in diversified management. Newsmanagers: CCR AM manages but also distributes products from UBS GAM. What respective sums do these two activities represent? Muriel Tailhades du Châtelier: CCR AM is the asset management firm for the UBS group in France. In this role, alongside its management activity, it distributes all of the management capacities of UBS Global Asset Management. In numbers, out of EUR6.5bn in assets under management, EUR5.3bn are managed by teams at CCR AM, while the remainder is managed by UBS. Newsmanagers: In 2012, you enriched the management process for your CCR Valeur fund, a European value equity fund, all cap sizes, taking inspiration from your work in behavioural finance. Can you offer a first verdict on these modifications? Muriel Tailhades du Châtelier: The enrichment of our investment process aimed to improve the performance profile of the fund and to find better resistance in phases of falling markets. Over the long term, this change in the investment process is expected to have a positive effect on performance. As of now, it seems that implementing these new management rules, including a stop loss rule, has reduced the disposition bias of the manager. Newsmanagers: What does that mean exactly? Muriel Tailhades du Châtelier: The disposition bias has to do with the phenomenon which leads the manager to sell shares too quickly when they represent a capital gain for the portfolio, although they could have continued to gain value subsequently, and inversely, to keep securities for too long at a loss, when they will continue to fall. Newsmanagers: What future do you envision for behavioural finance? Muriel Tailhades du Châtelier: We are convinced, to paraphrase Mr. Thaler, that finance is behavioural and that the academic field which is developing quickly will be a key tool to rethink the world of asset management, which has been through, which is still going through, an unprecedented crisis of confidence. It is likely that many asset management firms will be swallowed up by this work. In the United States, behavioural finance is highly developed, but it is largely a province of alternative asset management. In general, research related to the theme of behavioural finance is interesting to managers, since they can inform themselves. With the crisis, that made a lot more sense. It is a form of discipline in management, a virtuous element. But naturally, it will take time.