Investors remain optimistic, especially about emerging markets


Investor confidence in global economic growth remains high even as expectations of higher short-term rates increase, according to the BofA Merrill Lynch Fund Manager Survey taken between April 4 and April 10, 2014. The survey showed that the number of investors believing the global economy will grow over the next 12 months was steady at a bullish net 62 percent, unchanged from March and higher than the 56 percent in February. That view supports expectations for profits – a net 44 percent of investors believe profits will improve over the next 12 months, up from 40 percent in March and the same as in February.However, expectations of higher short-term rates are growing with a net 66 percent believing short rates will rise over the next 12 months, up from 55 percent in both March and February and the highest in three years. This expectation of normalizing monetary policies, though, hasn’t changed sentiment on long-term rates much – a net 72 percent believes they’ll be higher in 12 months, down slightly from 74 percent in March and 73 percent in February. Taken together, expectations for a steeper yield curve are falling away. A net 22 percent of investors are expecting a steepening compared with 39 percent in March and 42 percent in February.There was a big change in sentiment among investors when choosing between value and growth stocks. In April, a net 40 percent believed value stocks will outperform growth stocks over the next 12 months, more than triple the level in March and an all-time high. The preference for value might offer one clue to the recent sell-off in technology and biotech stocks. Regionally, a net 66 percent of global fund managers believe the U.S. is still the most over-valued equity market, little changed from March and February. That has many looking again at emerging markets – a net 55 percent think these are undervalued, up from 49 percent in March and the highest reading ever. In addition, only a net 2 percent would like to underweight emerging markets, down sharply from 21 percent in March.