Brussels introduces a «say on pay» for Europe’s largest companies


The European Commission on April 9 adopted measures to improve the corporate governance of around 10 000 companies listed on Europe’s stock exchanges. This would contribute to the competitiveness and long-term sustainability of these companies. Other proposals would also provide cost-efficient company law solutions for SMEs which operate across borders. The package of measures implements key actions identified in the Communication on the long-term financing of the European economy of 27 March.The proposal to revise the existing Shareholder Rights Directive (Directive 2007/36/EC) would tackle corporate governance shortcomings relating to listed companies and their boards, shareholders (institutional investors and asset managers), intermediaries and proxy advisors (i.e. firms providing services to shareholders, notably voting advice). Too often, as the crisis showed, shareholders supported managers’ excessive short-term risk taking and did not monitor closely the companies they invested in.The proposals would both make it easier for shareholders to use their existing rights over companies and enhance those rights where necessary. This would help ensure shareholders were more engaged; better hold the management of the company to account and act in the long-term interests of the company. A longer term perspective creates better operating conditions for listed companies and improves their competitiveness. Key elements of the proposal include stronger transparency requirements for institutional investors and asset managers on their investment and engagement policies regarding the companies in which they invest as well as a framework to make it easier to identify shareholders so they can more easily exercise their rights (e.g. voting rights), in particular in cross-border situations (44% of shareholders are from another EU Member State or foreign). Proxy advisors would also have to become more transparent on the methodologies they use to prepare their voting recommendations and on how they manage conflicts of interests.For the first time, a European «say on pay» would be introduced. Today, there is an insufficient link between management pay and performance and this encourages harmful short-term tendencies. The proposals would oblige companies to disclose clear, comparable and comprehensive information on their remuneration policies and how they were put into practice. There would be no binding cap on remuneration at EU level but each company would have to put its remuneration policy to a binding shareholder vote.The policy would need to include a maximum level for executive pay. It would also need to explain how it contributes to the long-term interests and sustainability of the company. It would also need to explain how the pay and employment conditions of employees of the company were taken into account when setting the policy including explaining the ratio between average employees and executive pay.Eurosif (the European Sustainable and Responsible Investment Forum) has welcomed the European Commission’s proposal to amend the Shareholders’ Rights Directive. In the coming weeks, it will consult its members to analyse the details of the proposal and will publish a more comprehensive response in due course.