Japan’s GPIF reorganises Japanese equity strategy


P { margin-bottom: 0.08in; } The Japanese Government Pension Investment Fund (GPIF), which has USD1.2trn in assets under management, is resetting its equity investment policy on its domestic market. The pension fund has decided to put in place a wide range of indices in its dedicated strategy (“Indexing Strategy”) both for passive and active investments, the firm announced in a statement on 4 April. Concerning passive investments, in addition to the TOPIX index, three new indices will now be used: JPX-Nikkei 400, MSCI Japan and Russell Nomura Prime. Meanwhile, in the area of active investments, in the «Traditional Active Management» category, GPIF is introducing a new Smart Beta active management category, “an investment approach which aims to capture returns over the mid- and long-term through an indexing strategy,” the pension fund says. Due to the introduction of these new induces, GPIF will start to perform passive and active investments in local real estate via Japanese real estate investment trusts (REIT). As part of the reorganisation, GPIF has selected 14 active and 10 passive managers. In the area of traditional active management, the pension fund will work with the following managers: Eastsping Investments Limited, Invesco AM, Capital International K.K., Seiruy AM, Natixis AM Japan, Nikko AM, FIL Investments (Japan), Mizuho AM, Russell Investments Japan, JP Morgan AM and DIAM (the last two of which already work with GPIF). For active smart beta management, the pension fund has selected three managers: Goldman Sachs AM, Nomura Funds Research and Technologies, and Nomura AM, with whom it had already been working. Lastly, for passive investments, GPIF has selected 5 new managers. DIAM, Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank and Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Banking Corporation will operate for strategies related to the JPX-Nikei 400 index. Meanwhile, BlackRock Japan has been selected to oversee investments related to the MSCI Japan index, and Mizuho Trust & Banking has been selected for investments related to the Russell Nomura Prime.