European Commission publishes its roadmap for long-term financing


The European Commission on March 27 adopted a package of measures to stimulate new and different ways of unlocking long-term financing and support Europe’s return to sustainable economic growth. Significant long-term investment will be needed under the Europe 2020 strategy and the 2030 climate and energy package, in infrastructure, new technologies and innovation, R&D and human capital. Investment needs for transport, energy and telecom infrastructure networks of EU importance alone are estimated at EUR1 trillion for the period up to 2020 as identified by the Connecting Europe Facility.The economic and financial crisis has affected the ability of the financial sector to channel funds to the real economy, in particular to long-term investment. Europe has always relied heavily on banks financing the real economy (two-thirds of funding comes from banks, compared to one-third in the US). As banks are deleveraging, there is less funding available to all sectors of the economy – for example less than one-third of Dutch and Greek SMEs and only around half of Spanish and Italian SMEs got the full amount of credit they applied for in 2013. It is essential to act to restore the conditions for sustainable growth and investment and in part that means finding new ways to channel funds to long-term investment. The Commission’s Green Paper consultation on the long-term financing of the European economy of March 2013 initiated a broad debate and lead to replies from all segments of the economy. The package of measures adopted today includes a communication on the long-term financing of the economy, a legislative proposal for new rules for occupational pension funds and a communication on crowdfunding. The actions can be grouped around six main areas:1. Mobilising private sources of long term financing: the actions include finalising the details of the prudential framework for banks and insurance companies in a way that supports long-term investments in the real economy, mobilising more personal pension savings and exploring ways to foster more cross-border flows of savings and the merits of a possible EU savings account.In this context, today’s legislative proposal for new rules on occupational pension funds (IORP 2) should contribute to more long-term investment. The proposal has three main objectives: to ensure that pension scheme members are properly protected against risks; to fully reap the benefits of the single market for occupational pensions by removing obstacles to cross-border provision of services; to reinforce the capacity of occupational pension funds to invest in financial assets with a long-term economic profile and thereby support the financing of growth in the real economy.2. Making better use of public funding: fostering the activity of national promotional banks (financial institutions, created by governments, that provide financing for the purposes of economic development) and promoting better cooperation among existing national export credit schemes (institutions that act as an intermediary between national governments and exporters to issue export financing). Both of these play an important role in long-term financing.3. Developing European capital markets: facilitating SMEs’ access to capital markets and to larger investment pools by creating a liquid and transparent secondary market for corporate bonds, reviving securitisation markets with due consideration to the risks as well as to the differentiated nature of such products, and improving the EU environment for covered bonds and private placement.4. Improving SMEs’ access to financing: the actions set out in the communication on long-term financing include improving credit information on SMEs, reviving the dialogue between banks and SMEs and assessing best practices on helping SMEs access capital markets. Raising awareness and providing information on projects are also among the key elements of the actions put forward in the communication on crowdfunding adopted today, in which the Commission proposes to: promote industry best practices, raise awareness and facilitate the development of a quality label closely monitor the development of crowdfunding markets and national legal frameworks and regularly assess whether any form of further EU action – including legislative action – is necessary. The goal is to identify the issues that may need to be addressed in order to support the growth of crowdfunding.5. Attracting private finance to infrastructure to deliver on Europe 2020: increasing availability of information on infrastructure investment plans and improving the credit statistics on infrastructure loans.6. Enhancing the wider framework for sustainable finance: improving the corporate governance regime for long-term financing, for example regarding shareholder engagement (by revising the Shareholders’ Rights Directive – proposal due to be adopted shortly), employee ownership, corporate governance reporting, and environmental, social and governance (ESG) issues.