“We want to double the stake of institutionals in our assets”


P { margin-bottom: 0.08in; } Newsmanagers: How did the year 2013 go for the Paris office of Legg Mason? Vincent Passa: The year was really satisfactory for us. The Paris office now has USd980m in assets, and so we are close to USD1bn in assets. We had net inflows of USD250m last year in France, which is very satisfactory in light of the absence in our product range of “irresistible” products in the asset classets which are pulling in heavy inflows. Our assets are currently 65% equities and 35% bonds. This distribution is the reverse of the end of the year 2012, which makes us less sensitive to a rise in interest rates. Newsmanagers: What funds were most popular last year? Vincent Passa: Our clients particularly sought out our US equity funds, such as the Clearbridge US Aggressive Growth fund. That is the largest strategy from Clearbridge, which has about USD29bn, out of a total of USD80bn, and which is more than 30 years old. The Irish-registered fund, which we well in France, has US1.8bn. It grew by more than USD1bn in 2013, and subscriptions in France have contributed strongly to this increase. Another fund which provided from this inflow from the Paris office, largely due to an improvement in the macroeconomic context in the United States, is the Royce US Small Cap Opportunity Fund, which now has USD1.1bn in its Dublin-registered version. Newsmangers: And which ones had outflows in 2013? Vincent Passa: In 2013, the demand for directional bond products weakened. Investors lightened these strategies to move to non-directional funds, which led to some redemptions from products of this type. However, our redemptions are lower than those from this asset class generally, even proportionately speaking. Newsmanagers: Legg Mason is a specialist in professional clients on the French market. How are these clients developing? Vincent Passa: We are concentrated mainly on sales of funds, as opposed to mandates or dedicated funds, where we keep an open ear to selective opportunities. We are thus aimed at professional investor clients: funds of funds, private banks, family offices, and institutional clients. Newsmanagers: Why do institutionals seem to you to be an attractive client base for your niche? Vincent Passa: There is a real market for sales of open-ended funds to institutional clients, I would say EUR100bn to all institutionals, regardless of their type. This is an attractive market for us, since the actors go out of their traditional perimeters, and are increasingly extending allocations centred on the euro zone. Those who can do so diversify with an increased exposure to US equities, for example, a niche in which Legg Mason is highly present. We would therefore like to accentuate our efforts on institutionals, who now represent 15% of our clients. In the mid-term, the objective is to double this percentage. Newsmanagers; The multi-boutique model at Legg Mason offers highly typed products, focused on US equities, for example. Doesn’t the absence of a range for the Europe region hold back access for institutional investors? Vincent Passa: It is true that at the moment we are not present in asset classes such as European credit, or euro zone equities. Joseph A. Sullivan, chairman and CEO of Legg Mason, has recently announced that the group could build its presence on non-US equities (Global, Europe, UK...) via an external growth operation or an integration of a team. There is a real desire on the part of the group to extend our expertise in equities, and to enrich the alternative management range.