“We want to accelerate our international development”


Newsmanagers: You have recently won a mandate from ERAFP. What does that contract represent for Sycomore? Laurent Deltour: It is very goo dnews, which gives visibility to our SRI management, and most of all it is recognition of our work. This mandate once again illustrates the correctness of the policy we have engaged since the firm was created in 2001, oriented to financial and extra-financial analysis. A few yearsa later, in 2008, that led us to formulate a proprietary ESG analysis grid, with 80 criteria. That proprietary research allows us to evaluate a very wide range of firms. That is also what differentiates us, and what has probably played a role in the choice of ERAFP. This EUR150m mandate propels our SRI labelled management to over EUR400m, making Sycomore one of the largest independent asset management firms in this asset class. Newsmanagers: What initial results can you offer for the year 2013? Laurent Deltour: The past year was a good year, with excellent performance for our entire range. With the mandate won from ERAFP, we have had inflows of over EUR400m. Excluding that mandate, our inflows have been well-distributed between our varous strategies. With positive market effects of EUR200m, our assets under management as of the end of December totalled about EUR2.2bn, compared with EUR1.6bn at the end of 2012. Newsmanagers: 12 years after your creation, do you feel that your client base is diverse enough? Laurent Deltour: Our clients remain largely institutional, about 90%, while IFAs represent about 10%. We would like to strengthen our presence serving IFAs. We might say that inflows have begun to increase. IFAs represent inflows of about EUR100m, which is not negligible. Our objective in the mid-term, four to five years, is to rebalance the two, with 30% to 40% for IFAs and 60% to 70% for institutionals. Newsmangers: How do you plan to increase your presence serving IFAs? Laurent Deltour: We began in 2008, but at the time we did not have adequate products. That has now been achieved with a range of products adapted to the risk/return objecttives sought by IFAs, meaning aside from traditional directional funds, flexible funds and long/short funds. We are also going to continue our validating training efforts in 2014 with a new ESG module. One of our ambitions is to promote SRI to IFAs, offering them the Sycomore Sélection Responsable fund, which offers atttractice tax incentives for retail investors. Newsmanagers: How about your international development? Laurent Deltour: We have been present in Germany via a TPS for about 18 months. We also have a TPM in the Middle East, based in Abu Dhabi, But we are considering what actions to take in 2014 in Europe. We are taking decisions early in the year, in first half for sure. We will determine what the next targets are in the institutional universe, of course. International now represents 15% of our assets, compared with about 10% previously. We would like to accelerate our international development, and reach a percentage of about 30% in the next four to five years. That is a question of means.