Mirae Asset plans to accelerate its development in Europe


Frédéric Niamkey is confident. “Our mission is to highlight our quality strategies for quality clients in Europe,” the new head of sales at Mirae Asset Management for France, Geneva and Monaco tells Newsmanagers. Niamkey, who arrived at Mirae Asset Global Investments (UK) six months ago, and who previously developed the activities of Aberdeen AM in Switzerland, is based in London, with the objective of contributing to the spread and development of asset management activities in the French-speaking countries of the Mirae financial servicesou group.The asset management unit, a part of Mirae Asset Global Investnents, is present in 12 countries. It has developed an expertise for emerging markets, with branch offices in seven countries (Australia, China, Kong Kong, India, Korea, Taiwan and Vietnam). In Asia, Mirae Asset is one of the largest asset management firms in the region, in both the retail and institutional segments, but international activities remain embryonic.Mirae Asset has assets of USD75bn, of which only USD2bn are international. Of this total, 90% comes from European investors who have engaged with any one of the strategies offered by Mirae. “We are going to go step by step, not in any hurry, but our objective is to distribute our best four or five strategies to European investors,” says Niamkey. The London office has been expanded, and now has eight people, six of whom cover distribution to all European countries.Assets under management originating from Europe may still be modest, but they have grown strongly. “We have managed to multiply our assets by four in the past two years, and interest in our strategies has not let up, despite a sometimes difficult context,” says Niamkey. Of USD2bn in assets, 40% come from institutional investors, and 60% from wholesale.One of the themes highlighted by Mirae is the rise of the middle classes. Among other themes are electronic commerce is growing fast in China in particular, tourism, which is still in its infancy, health care, with immense needs to cover in the coming decades, and one about “local taste.”All of the strategies highlighted so far involve only one asset class: equities. But Mirae does intend to enter certain bond strategies. Fixed income already represents over USD20bn in assets. “In 2016, we are planning to offer one or two bond strategies in Europe,” says Niamkey.