Old Mutual GI revamps its Generation range


Old Mutual Global Investors has launched refreshed versions of the Old Mutual Generation portfolios, following the introduction of the new pension freedoms. The three new multi-asset Generation portfolios have been designed in collaboration with financial advisers to ensure they offer a flexible solution for customers in or close to retirement, with different attitudes to risk. The portfolios seek to deliver a total return, through focusing on short-term risk management and the diversification of investments across asset classes. The portfolios will continue to target both capital growth and income generation. However, the explicit income targets on the funds have now been removed.At present, the portfolios are invested predominantly in funds managed by third party investment managers. Under the new objectives the portfolios will fully utilise a wider range of potential investments, such as the ability to directly invest in income-generating stocks.OMGI already has the resources and expertise in place to select income-generating stocks from an expertly monitored list. OMGI will also look to make greater use of its UK and European stock pickers.In order to reflect the removal of the explicit income targets, the names of the funds are amended : Old Mutual Generation Target 3:4 becomes Old Mutual Generation Target, Old Mutual Generation Target 4:4 becomes Old Mutual Generation Target 4, OMGI has also confirmed the launch of the Old Mutual Generation Target 5 portfolio.These funds seek to protect investors against the ravages of inflation and respectively target returns above the consumer price index of +3%, +4% and +5% over the medium term.Going forward the funds will be managed by Anthony Gillham and Paul Craig. The duo will be supported by a 24-strong multi-asset capability. This unit combines the multi-asset expertise of OMGI and Quilter Cheviot.OMGI has also confirmed that it will be closing Generation 3:6 and 4:6. Both funds have limited assets and are therefore no longer operationally viable.