“We are considering creating a distribution platform in Luxembourg”


p { margin-bottom: 0.25cm; line-height: 120%; } NewsManagers: Three years after arriving as head of Meeschaert Asset Management, what initial conclusions can you draw? Philippe Troesch: When I arrived in 2012, the firm was very closely imbrecated with Financière Meeschaert, whose business model was based on optimising all of the teams at the same entity. As a part of that, asset management had a management outsourcing contract, and funds were housed at Financière Meeschaert. Since then, we have decided to create four independent entities: Meeschaert Gestion Privée, which has nine branches in major French cities, each of which has four to six people, in addition to which there are 12 advisers in Paris; Meeschaert Family Office, which delivers our services to high net worth private clients and families, whom we have reinforced, particularly with a recent addition to the team; Meeschaert Asset Management, which is now a totally separate and autonomous activity, since our funds are now registered with BNP Paribas Securities Services; and lastly, Meeschaert Private Equity, which is a competely new activity. NewsManagers: Before talking about the private activity, what is the situation with asset management at Meeschaert? Philippe Troesch: It should be noted that 90% of customers of the group come from private management. However, for asset management, we are increasingly participating in requests for proposals and we are working to develop more business serving institutionals. We are now well-organized, and we will therefore be able to develop the structure more toward the exterior. That is a project for 2016. NewsManagers: Let’s return to the private equity activity. What is the objective and what are its ambitions? Philippe Troesch: The idea is to have a full range of investments. We have therefore created two dedicated teams, with 8 to 10 people each, which operate in two professions: capital transmission and capital development. The private equity fund now unites French and foreign institutionals such as funds of funds, pension funds and insurers, and corporate heads investing on their own behalf. NewsManagers: How do you explain this interest on the part of institutionals? Philippe Troesch: We have seen a rather strong movement in favour of this type of asset, such as non-publicly traded equities, and real estate. This private equity activity is a real success. Lastly, we have got outside the traditional Meeschaert professions, and these are now promising areas for us as we have taken the company to new heights. NewsManagers: Concerning the asset management activity, you say you want to develop toward the exterior. What are your projects? Philippe Troesch: Firstly, we want to strengthen our presence in the area of distribution. We have a team of three people to which we want to add one or two more additional members. We are also considering creating a distribution platform in Luxembourg, although this project has not been fully completed. We also have a small presence in the United States and we are also looking to reinforce our local management team. We are seeking to recruit a manager in the United States as an addition to our team, which now has three members. NewsManagers: Do you have particular ambitions in the area of institutional investors? Philippe Troesch: For institutionals, we will continue to respond to requests for proposals, currently only for French offers. If we also wish to build a platform in Luxembourg, this will also be to respond to a greater number of requests for proposals. We will continue to play the private equity card, with, as I have said, a closing for our fund by the end of 2015. 2016 will be the year in which Meeschaert Asset Management grows its power. I must add that until very recently, we had never sold our products outside the group! Now, the group sells both private equity products and products from Meeschaert Asset Management. The group has about EUR5.8bn in assets under management and under surveillance, of which EUR2.2bn are in asset management and over EUR3bn in private management. Concerning private management, I must point out that we have outsourced our account maintenance tool to ProCapital. This project began in February and is in a normalization phase. NewsManagers: What is in your product range? Will it change? Philippe Troesch: We have 10 open-ended OPCVM funds, including SRI equity funds and bond funds. We are also putting a lot of emphasis on our competence in ethical and socially responsible management. NewsManagers: You mention ethical management. Meeschaert is a recognized actor in socially responsible investment (SRI). What are your plans in this area? Philippe Troesch: It is true that for a long time the firm has been developing a very important ethical and SRI management. We also have an SRI fund which is now more than 30 years old, Nouvelle Stratégie 50. We have developed this management through dedicated funds, which now have significant assets. We are now undertaking a more global and deeper reflection about the concept of responsibility in the wider sense in an increasingly digital world which offers more freedom and in which a profusion of money is creating significant disparity. In the digital era, there is no more guard-rail. So how can we create a responsible framework in this context? The problem is that the socially responsible framework of governments is failing. We need to take a new interest in the social responsibility of businesses. At Meeschaert, what we are interested in doing is encouraging socially responsible behaviour at businesses, which we call “positive integration.” We think that as investors we have a particular responsibility. We see a very strong movement in this area. The proof is that several pension funds are considering this evolution to socially responsible investment, such as the ERAFP, Ircantec, and the Fonds de Réserve des Retraites (FRR) in France. This movement toward social responsibility on the part of investors is very strong and it is moving. At our level, we are also engaging in this line of reflection. So, we want to develop our SRI research and develop what we call “humanly responsible investment.” NewsManagers: How might this reflection materialise? Philippe Troesch: The objective is to establish new criteria for the selection of criteria based on this notion of responsibility, concentrating on pay policy, training of employees, etc. We invest both in small companies and in very large caps, with the assistance of specialist agencies like Vigeo. Internally, we are working to establish our own grid for reflection and selection. The idea is simple: the company is now at the heart of the issue.