Apollo acquires a majority stake in capital of American Realty


p { margin-bottom: 0.25cm; line-height: 120%; } The US private equity firm Apollo Global Management on 6 August announced the acquisition of a majority stake in the capital of AR Global Investments, a new company which itself will hold a majority stake in the asset management activity of American Realty Capital (AR Capital), an asset management firm specialised in solutions which generate income for retail investors. The total price of the operation is USD378m, of which USD200m is in cash, and USD178m in Apollo shares. The acquisition of AR Global will more than double real estate assets under management to a total of about USD27bn. AG Global will be led by a newly-created board of directors. It will include six members from Apollo, one of whom will be appointed chairman, and four members from AR Capital, who will be Peter Budko, William Kahane, Nicholas Schorsch and Michael Weil. William Kahane, co-founder and chief real estate investment officer at AR Capital, will serve as chief executive officer (CEO) of AR Global pending the recruitment of a full-time CEO. After the recruitment, Kahane will serve as chief investment officer for real estate activities at AR Global. Nicholas Schorsch, for his part, will serve as senior managing director at AR Global. AR Capital, founded in 2006, now manages nearly USD19bn in alternative assets, according to a statement from Apollo. Meanwhile, Apollo has also announced the acquisition of the wholesale distribution activity of RCS Capital, which will then be integrated into AR Capital, for a sum of USD25m in cash. Apollo has also signed a strategic partnership with the retail advising activity at RCS Capital, Cetera Financial Group. Apollo will acquire USD25m in newly-issued preferential shares in RCS. “This operation will allow Apollo to significantly extend its wholesale distribution network,” the private equity firm says in a statement. At the conclusion of the operation. Bill Dwyer, chief executive officer (CEO) for the wholesale activity at RCS Capital, will retain his current role.