CHRB opens consultation for human rights index


The Corporate Human Rights Benchmark (CHRB) led by a group of investors, an NGO, a think tank and an investor research agency, has launched a public consultation on the first draft of indicators that will be used to rank companies on their human rights performance. The CHRB is looking for feedback on the draft indicators in advance of their first application in a pilot ranking in June 2016. The CHRB will harness the competitive nature of the markets to drive better human rights performance through the creation of a transparent, credible and publicly available benchmark. It will balance measuring companies on human rights related policies, processes and practices. Each company’s own process to determine and manage their most salient risks, with a focus on risks that are significant in their sector, will be assessed. Company performance will also be measured through a range of indicators combined with an assessment of adverse events that have occurred, and the company’s approach to addressing and remediating them. The draft indicators span 5 measurement themes across 9 subtopics, totaling over 50 indicators. Once the methodology is finalized, the top 100 globally listed companies will be benchmarked in the pilot ranking in June 2016. These companies will span three key sectors, covering Food & Beverage/Agriculture, Apparel, and Extractives. Over the next three years the Benchmark will expand to cover the top 500 global listed companies. The CHRB is consulting widely on the first draft of the indicators and its general approach, including in Amsterdam, London, Johannesburg, Sao Paulo, and New York. An online consultation, launched today in English, will allow feedback from a wide range of stakeholders all over the world - the online consultation will soon be available in Spanish, French and Portuguese. Consultations will be held through till September 2015, with the online consultation closing 31st August 2015. The CHRB are calling for feedback from the wide range of interested stakeholders, including business, investors, unions, and civil society.