Scope Ratings pursues European strategy


p { margin-bottom: 0.25cm; line-height: 120%; } Torsten Hinrichs, CEO of Scope Ratings since 2013, who for 15 years led teams at Standard & Poor’s for Germany and Northern Europe, could not declare his ambitions more clearly. “By setting up shop in Paris, we wish to better meet the needs of French issuers and investors. We also see strong demand for a European ratings agency on the part of various players in the French market,” the head of the ratings agency said on 16 June at an opening of the firm’s Paris office. “We are responding to demand from issuers for a European alternative agency to the three major North American agencies. Our local engagement and proximity to local actors will allow us to better adapt our offerings to the specific needs of the market,” explained Sophie Grenier, responsible for business development at the Paris office. In France, Scope Ratings is bringing to bear its expertise in the ratings of SMEs/mid-sized businesses which are already well-established in Germany. The agency is planning to develop raings of local municipalities and ratings of large groups in France, during 2015. The Paris representative office becomes the third opened in Europe, after those in London and Madrid. An office of analysis will open in Frankfurt in July. The agency, whose headquarters have been in Berlin since its inception in 2002, is also planning to add to its European arsenal with the opening of an office in Milan. But for Hinrichs, Europe is only a step which concretises the expansion strategy at Scope, initially in Europe, and then worldwide. “Our objective is very clearly to become an international ratings agency, and to be the Euorpean agency of reference, which can be an alternative to the North American agencies,” Hinrichs claims, not missing an opportunity to stand out from the ‘Big Three’ rivals, whether it be for “non-mechanical” analysis, sectoral methodologies, or its range of services. “If our concept proves itself in Europe, we will very quickly develop outside the European perimeter,” Hinrichs continues. The next step may be the United States, Asia, Korea, or Singapore, or else Dubai, in 2016, the head of Scope Ratings says. And if everything goes well, Hinrich sees Scope with a European market share of 10% within ten years. Meanwhile, the agency has about 80 employees, of whom 35 are analysts and 10 are in business development, but these figures are constantly evolving. For instance, the agency on 16 June announced the recruitment of five new employees for various departments, including IT, investor relations, compliance and business development. The implementatino of the European strategy in workforce terms is “far from complete,” a statement says.