Retail investors expect returns to rise


Retail investors are seeing a net regain in confidence in the financial markets. These are the findings of the fourth edition of the annual study by Schroders, “Schroders Global Investment Trends Survey,” which covered 20,000 retail investors in 28 countries. “The results are rather surprising, with a level of investor confidence in the markets which has improved considerably all over the world,” Karine Szenberg, CEO of Schroders France, has said at a meeting with the press.In fact, more than half of retail investors worldwide, at 54%, overtly say they are more confident than one year ago about investment opportunities in the same period.In a sign that confidence is returning, 91% of respondents worldwide expect a positive return from their financial investments in the coming year. Investors are even betting on average returns of 12% over the next twelve months.In this context, 50% of investors surveyed are planning to increase their financial investments in the next twelve months, compared with 43% in 2014, and 38% in 2013.Despite this regain in confidence and strong hopes of returns, appetite for risk still remains moderate. A majority of retail investors still show a preference for short-term or low-risk investments. 45% of investments are still placed in lower-risk and/or assets with lower returns. Overall, individual investors wish to invest only 21% of their portfolios in assets classes with a higher risk-return profile. 35% of investors surveyed are planning to invest in the same asset classes as previously. The study also finds that there is a strong propensity on the part of investors to invest for the short term, while 46% of respondents prefer investments which are likely to generate returns within a horizon of one to two years.The quest for returns continues to be a major challenge, however, for retail investors worldwide. Investments which generate income are popular, as 87% of investors surveyed are also planning to invest in this type of investment.