Edmond de Rothschild AM tops EUR50bn in assets under management


The year has started very well for Edmond de Rothschild Asset Management. Assets under management at the firm have topped EUR50bn, Laurent Tignard, global head of the asset management business, has told to NEWSManagers. “Inflows in first quarter exceeded those last year in the same period,” Tignard points out.2014 went comparatively well, such that Edmond de Rothschild AM had assets of EUR48.8bn as of the end of December, compared with EUR45.5bn one year earlier. This growth of more than EUR3bn year on year is shared between EUR1.1bn in net inflows, and EUR2.2bn in market effects. Assets for the group totalled EUR136bn as of the end of 2014, compared with EUR136.6bn one year earlier, of which EUR69.2bn were for Global Asset Management, and EUR66.8bn for the global private bank.These net inflows of EUR1.1bn were affected by significant redemptions from money market funds and guaranteed funds, totalling EUR1.5bn. However, inflows from institutionals, which represent slightly under 50% of assets under management, totalled EUR1.5bn, and inflows related to external distribution represented EUR1.1bn.Among the six management centres which Edmond de Rothschild AM has worldwide, Paris remains the nerve centre: multiple areas of expertise are based there (European equities, US equities, emerging market equities, India, South America, asset allocation, fixed income, high yield, credit, financial debt), representing EUR25bn.EUR18bn in subscriptions have come from French clients. Infrastructure debt, with the Bridge fund, worked particuarly well in France. The US equity and Global Healthcare funds have also been popular.The other major market for Edmond de Rothschild AM is Switzerland, with assets of EUR11bn. In Europe, this is followed by Germany, with EUR2.1bn in assets.Another fast-growing market is Italy, where net inflows have totalled EUR600m, bringing assets under management to EUR1.7bn. Belgium, where Edmond de Rothschild distributes its funds via a partnership with BNP Fortis, represents assets of EUR2bn.Outside of Europe, activities are growing in Asia, with assets under management of EUR2.7bn, a significant proportion of which is in Japan.Edmond de Rothschild AM has also opened a sales office in Beijing, to target Chinese clients. An international equity fund aimed at Chinese clients is in preparation.Among the other developments planned this year, there is talk of a second fund dedicated to infrastructure debt. Edmond de Rothschild AM is also planning to maintain the momentum in wealth management solutions such as the EDR F Income Europe fund.