Investors worried by overvaluations in equity and bond markets


Investors see growing overvaluations in both bonds and equities and have signaled concern about a valuation bubble forming, according to the BofA Merrill Lynch Fund Manager Survey made from 2 to 9 April with an overall total of 177 panelists with USD 494bn of assets Under management. The proportion of global investors saying equity markets are overvalued has reached its highest level since 2000. A net 25 percent of respondents to the global survey say that global equities are currently overvalued, up from a net 23 percent in March and a net 8 percent in February. This is still, however, short of the record-high level of a net 42 percent in 1999. At the same time, the proportion of respondents saying that bond markets are overvalued has reached a new high in the survey’s history. A net 84 percent of the global panel says that bonds are overvalued, up from a net 75 percent in March. At the same time, 13 percent believe that “equity bubbles” are the biggest tail risk markets are facing, up from 2 percent in February. Global respondents believe that the focus of overvaluation is on the U.S. – a net 68 percent of the panel says that the U.S. is the most overvalued region globally. Global panelists believe that all other regions, including Europe and Japan remain undervalued. These assessments come as investors increasingly accept that U.S. rates will rise at a time when the European Central Bank and the Bank of Japan are engaged in monetary stimulus. Although a majority of investors expect no Fed hike before the third quarter, 85 percent expect a rate rise to take place this year. “April’s survey offers further proof that global investors are front-running global monetary policy,” said Michael Hartnett, chief investment strategist at BofA Merrill Lynch Research. “We are seeing a form of rational exuberance in Europe where a positive view on stocks is supported by fundamentals – but investors no longer believe valuations are cheap,” said Manish Kabra, European equity and quantitative strategist. Faced with the prospect of the Fed starting to tighten monetary policy, investors believe that currencies face higher volatility. Eighteen percent of the global panel says that currencies is the asset class most vulnerable to volatility, a rise of 5 percentage points since March. More investors say the dollar is overvalued against the euro and the yen. The proportion of respondents saying the U.S. dollar is overvalued has risen to a net 13 percent – a big swing from February when a net 12 percent took the view the dollar is undervalued. A net 8 percent believe the euro is undervalued this month, compared with a net 24 percent saying it was overvalued two months ago. Despite their view on valuations, however, a majority of investors still expect the dollar to appreciate, and the euro to depreciate, in the coming year. The highs of euro-mania seen in March have eased, but European equities retain much of their allure in April’s survey. A net 46 percent of asset allocators remain overweigh eurozone equities, down from a record net 60 percent in March. A net 37 percent of investors say the eurozone is the region they most want to overweight in the coming 12 months, though this too is down from a net 63 percent in March. The regional survey shows that Europeans have changed their perspective on valuation. A net 10 percent say that European equities are overvalued this month, up from a net 3 percent taking the view they were undervalued in March. However, a net 73 percent expect better corporate profits in the next year, up from a net 69 percent last month.