Oddo takes over 100% of Meriten IM


Oddo & Cie on Tuesday, 7 April announced the acquisition of 100% of capital in Meriten Investment Management, a German asset management firm based in Dusseldorf, from BNY Mellon Investment Management. The target was also being courted by Vontobel. The operation, whose total price has not been disclosed, is expected to be completed “in early July."Through this acquisition, Oddo & Cie takes a giant step forward in asset management. Oddo Asset Management had previously EUR16bn in assets under management and 110 employees, of whom 41 were portfolio managers and analysts. Meriten Invetsment Management, for its part, has nearly 180 employees, including 40 managers and analysts, and had EUR24.8bn in assets under management and administration as of the end of 2014, and EUR25.9bn in assets as of the end of March 2015. The new group, entitled Oddo Meriten Asset Management, will now have EUR40bn in assets under management and administration. “This operation creates the largest French-German player in asset management, and we will be among the 3 largest independent players in the euro zone,” says Philippe Oddo, managing partner at Oddo & Cie.55% of assets at the new structure will be in Germany, and 37% in France, while the remainder will be distributed between other regions, of which no more details are offered. In terms of asset classes, assets will be distributed with 45% fixed income, 23% in equities, 16% in asset allocation, 4% in convertible bonds and 3% in cash. In terms of the distribution by type of client, the new asset management firm will have 76% institutional and 24% wholesale clients.Beyond the bottom line, the ambition at Oddo Meritan Asset Management is to “become a top asset management firm specialised in the major European asset classes,” to bring its clients “a wider range of investment solutions,” Oddo & Cie states. Mr. Oddo also emphasises the “high level of complementarity between activities and areas of expertise” between Oddo IM and Meriten IM, and not for no reason. Meriten Investment, whose client base is composed of institutional investors (45% of its assets), savings banks (30%), businesses (20%) and mutual funds (5%), is a specialist in fixed income. Bonds represent 67% of its assets. However, Oddo AM is largely developed in European equities (46% of its assets) and asset allocation (25%).The agreement does not provide for capital trades involving Meriten IM or BNY Mellon IM. However, Oddo has announced plans to “offer key management persons at Meriten the opportunity to become shareholders in Oddo & Cie.”