Sovereign funds establish themselves in institutional market


Over the past 20 years, sovereign funds have performed remarkably well, and they are now more widespread, according to the most recent white paper published by Deutsche Asset & Wealth Management. The authors, Valeria Micelli, professor of economics and financial markets at the Catholic university of Milan, and Asoka Wöhrmann, CIO of Deutsche Asset & Wealth Management, consider them the richest source of capital support for financial markets.Thanks to a more long-term investment horizon and a higher exposure to risk, sovereign funds often behave like anti-cyclical investors. They invest in falling markets and in illiquid assets, in order to exploit future premiums on prices and liquidity. “As a result, sovereign funds, with their investments in stabilization, have played an important role as long-term investors since the financial crisis,” Wöhrmann says.In the past five years, assets under management and the real number of sovereign funds have considerable increased. As of the end of 2013, the portfolio of assets in the 69 existing sovereign funds increased to USD6.3trn, compared with about USD500m in 1995. About one third of these funds were launched between 2000 and 2013. Revenues from commodities, including those from oil exploration, represented 61% of their assets, while the remainder was generated by balance of payment surpluses.Micelli and Wöhrmann claim that sovereign funds are continuing to post good results, though not so pronounced as in the past few years. “This is partly caused by the decline in commodity prices and reduced export surpluses for countries such as China. Additionally, the appreciation of the currency and the increase in salaries has led countries to reduce the amount of money made available,” according to Micelli. According to projections, assets under management in funds will rise to USD10trn by the end of 2016.In the current environment, sovereign funds are re-examining their investment strategies and seeking to diversify their portfolios. So far, sovereign funds have preferred to invest in advanced economies, with a disproportionate allocation to highly capitalized businesses. The reasons the authors cite are significant liquidity and higher institutional standards applicable to advanced markets. From 1995 to 2010, an average of 40 percent of assets in sovereign funds were invested in Europe – 34% within the EU and 6% outside the EU. 27% have been invested in Adia, and 16% in North America. Through this investment strategy, sovereign funds claim to have produced average annual returns of 8% between 2010 and 2013.In the future, the authors predict that sovereign funds will invest more in emerging and frontier markets. They will aos increasingly turn to alternative investments, such as real estate, infrastructure and private equity. Other types of bond assets, such as corporate and high yield bonds, will also be preferred. “Sovereign funds are now established in institutional investment circles,” says Wöhrmann.