«Paris plays a key role in our set-up»


Newsmanagers: What is your assessment of 2014 in continental Europe, which you have headed up for almost two years? Sergio Trezzi: 2014 was an especially good year for Invesco. Gross inflows came to about 36 billion dollars, while net inflows came to about 15 billion dollars when excluding money-market funds and ETFs. That puts us in the top three in terms of inflows and we are aiming for regional leadership. NM: Is the current year shaping up like 2014? S.T.: I can’t give you any figures, but the first two months of the year are along the lines of 2014. We achieved record inflows in February, and the first two months of the year are looking very good compared to the same period one year earlier. NM: What is behind this momentum in your opinion? S.T.: I believe that we have been able to meet investors’ needs at a very early stage in recent years with our multi-class asset offer. Clients have moved in this direction because of the withdrawal by banks. There is another reason for multi-asset class strategies – regulation, MiFID in particular, which requires that clients have a clear grasp of the level of exposure to which they are exposed. Meanwhile, the notion of multi-asset has changed much in recent years. At first, investors considered it to be just a diversified product but over the last two or three years, this notion has been used for many strategies. NM: What multi-asset strategies are you pushing? S.T.: We have three major strategies in this area: Pan European High Income, Invesco Balanced-Risk Allocation (IBRA) and Invesco Global Targeted Returns (GTR). All three of these strategies are very different from one another. The first uses a fundamental approach, while the second is risk-based, with risk parity, and the third and most recent one (18 months), GTR, is a strategy that expresses investment ideas and that can be used in all asset classes. The benchmark is three-month Euribor plus 5% with volatility less than 50% of that of international equities over a rolling three year period. We believe demand will continue to grow for this type of products. Fixed income is no longer up to the task, and investors often have a hard time assessing their equity exposure risk. NM: What is the French market’s role in your European set-up? S.T.: Paris plays a key role in our set-up. We have invested heavily in recent years. We decided two years ago to focus more on funds of funds and institutional investors investing in UCITS funds and less on independent advisors. Last year, we hired a senior person to expand our distribution team, and we could hire another person, which should raise our total distribution staff to about 10 persons. Meanwhile, Paris provides the core functions of legal and compliance in Europe. The legal department, for example, covers Benelux, Nordic countries, Italy, Spain, Greece, in addition to France. NM: What are the French market’s statistics? S.T.: Last year our inflows expanded by 30% compared to the previous year, to 860 million dollars. We currently have 4.5 billion dollars in assets under management. And this amount doesn’t include the more than 2 billion dollars managed by the multi-management team headed by Bernard Aybran, mainly for European clients. France is a challenging market, with a multitude of boutiques. But I am convinced that we can expand on this market, as we feel that consolidation is inevitable. NM: What are Invesco’s other major markets? S.T.: The German market is also very important. In the last 12 months, we have hired three senior sales managers on the team covering banks, which is one of our three priority targets, alongside independent advisors and asset allocators. We collected a little less than 1 billion dollars last year and now have about 5 billion dollars in assets under management. We manage about 25 billion dollars in Italy, which is Invesco’s third-largest retail market after the US and the UK. Net inflows exceeded 8 billion dollars last year and inflows in the first two months of 2015 are ahead of the pace of January and February 2014. NM: Isn’t Europe’s share of the group total still too modest? S.T.: In absolute terms, Europe is not as insignificant as you suggest. The United Kingdom accounts for 70 billion dollars, and the rest of Europe, 52 billion dollars, which makes a total of more than 120 billion dollars in retail. That said, if you compare us with a major French asset manager, we are rather modestly sized. But what counts is our relative position on the various markets, i.e., being in the top three or five in cross-border business, which is generally the case. Moreover, we are well diversified, with about 10 products with AuM over 1 billion dollars. The multi-asset class products I mentioned earlier are part of this group, along with other funds, such as Pan European Equity and Pan European Structured. NM: So it will be business as usual in 2015? S.T.: In any case, there are no plans to begin new projects or open new offices. And as I was saying, our offer is also highly diversified, with about 80 cross-border funds. We see two main sources of growth this year – multi-asset, as I said, with clients that increasingly demanding of tailored solutions; and European equities, which offer many opportunities in the current environment NM: You nonetheless appear to have a keen interest in ETFs, which are booming in Europe. S.T.: That’s right. Just two months ago, we launched PowerShares Global Buy-Back Achievers, an ETF dedicated to share buybacks, a still very rare strategy in Europe. The ETF already has 100 million dollars in inflows and we plan to launch other smart beta products of this type in the coming months. In terms of assets under management, we are number four worldwide on the ETF market as a whole, and we are number one in smart beta. We have the track-record, the size and the capacities necessary to expand on this market.