Convictions AM declares ambitions and launches new funds


p { margin-bottom: 0.1in; line-height: 120%; } The new Convictions AM has arrived. Nicolas Duban, its CEO since July 2014, had since his arrival declared a desire to give a new breath of life to the asset management firm. After several months of gestation, “Convictions AM version 2.0” is ready for rollout. Convictions AM is now foregrounding two major concepts, which are likely to contribute to the generation of returns: on the one hand, multi-strategy management, which aims for an optimal combination of diverse and complementary strategies. On the other hand, picking strategy takes the form of type or specialist funds, contracts on indices, direct positions, etc., which are identified as best reflecting the selected strategies. In order to better articulate these concepts, Convictions AM has established partnerships, firstly with Morningstar for the selection and analysis of funds, and for the implementation of strategy picking. Convictions AM has also added to its capacity for reflection, with the creation of a board of experts which includes some big names. With this new architecture, Convictions AM is adding to its fund range, with the launch of three investment solutions: Convictions MultiBonds and Convictions MultiEquities, in partnership with Morningstar, and Convictions Open Futures. These three funds each have initial capital of EUR15m. The firm is also working on a strategy to unite all asset classes, including alternative asset classes such as real estate and private equity. In the future, Convictions AM plans to put energy into partnerships, with the deployment of a strategy called “Allied Convictions Asset Managers,” which allies asset management firms and talented managers, actively participating in the consolidation of the sector as this new phase of open architecture opens, and by potentially opening to investor partners who wish to participate in the process at the asset management firm. Convictions AM stabilised its assets at about EUR300m, distributed between four major client groups: institutional investors and businesses, family offices, independent financial advisers (IFAs), and lastly, distributors and buyers (private banks). Convictions AM also plans to develop international markets, which currently represent 15% of assets. Duban thus hopes to transform the firm with a new business plan and success story, which would allow the asset management firm to return to or approach its asset levels in the past.