Canada’s IGM Financial to acquire 10% of China Asset Management


The Société financière IGM (IGM Financial), an asset management firm based in Canada, with assets totalling about CAD140m as of the end of November, on 29 December announced that it had acquired a 10% stake in China Asset Management Co. (China AMC) on behalf of its affiliate, Corporation Financière Mackenzie, The sale price totals about RMB2.4bn, or CAD468m, slightly over EUR330m. A statement says that Mackenzie will have an opportunity to icnrease its stake by 3.9% in January via a further acquisition agreement. The two operations involve separate non-strategic shareholders which are Chinese state-controlled businesses, a statement says.“This acquisition provides IGM Financial with a means to participate in the asset management sector in the world’s second-largest economy, which is growing quickly. It also allows us to diversify our activities outside Canada,” says Jeff Carney, chairman and head of management at IGM Financial. China AMC, founded in 1998, whose controlling shareholder is the Chinese broker CITIC Securities, is one of the largest asset management firms in China, and one of the fastest-growing. Assets under management at China AMC as of the end of June 2016 totalled nearly RMB1.099078trn, or CAD215bn (over EUR152bn). Since 31 December 2011, the firm has posted an annual growth rate of over 40%.IGM Financial has built business relationships with the Chinese asset management firm since 2011 via its affiliates Mackenzie and Groupe Investors. “Mackenzie has recently won a new mandate for global fixed income oriented to relative returns, which will be distributed via the distribution channel of China AMC. We think the synergy created, and others like it, will allow us to increase our business volume in institutional and retail markets in the two regions of the world concerned,” explains Barry McInerney, chairman and head of management at Mackenzie.The operation is expected to contribute to the profits at IGM Financial from its first complete year of participation. IGM Financial is planning to finance the operation both with liquidity and the issue of securities and/or preferred stocks during the first half of 2017, with the final conclusions subject to the usual legal requirements, including the approval of the Chinese regulatory authorities.