“External growth is neither a necessity nor a taboo”


Newsmanagers: What initial balance sheet do you give for your activities in 2016?Lionel Paquin: We are satisfied with the way the year has gone for the most part. As of the end of October, our net inflows had totalled EUR5.2bn, and are expected to total near this level for the year overall. Our assets under management and advised, at EUR116.4bn, are in line with our mid-term strategic objectives. The year has also been marked by the signing of several major partnerships, including one with a major pension fund in the United States. We have also had a very good dynamic in ETFs, an activity which now represents EUR50n in assets. Lastly, 2016 made it possible to confirm the solidity and resilience of our economic model over a complicated and unpredictable year. We have continued to invest to construct the future. If the end of 2016 shows indications for 2017, we are confident.Newsmanagers; What is your outlook for aset management and the development of the financial markets?Lionel Paquin: It is clear that absolutely massive things are happening in our industry, which is a source both of surprises and of opportunities. The world of finance is in an unusual configuration, with interest rates set at extremely low levels, and expected to remain there for a long time still. This environment represents a complete transformation of the paradigm for investors, and also for asset management firms, who need to reconsider their positions and their models. We are also all facing unpredictable financial markets in the wake of political, social and economic movements which are sudden and impossible to predict. There are now no more real fundamental trends on the market as we may have known them a few years ago. Lastly, regulation has evolved a lot further, and is now at work on increasing transparency in pricing. At Lyxor, we are in favour of this transparency, as in our eyes, it represents a real opportunity.…Find the full interview on the French version of www.newsmanagers.com