EFAMA and Fitch address operational uncertainties over new money market fund regulations


After the signing an agreement concerning regulation of money market funds by the council of ministers on 7 December, at a meeting of the permanent representative committee (Coreper), and by the economic commission of the European parliament on 8 December, the European fund and asset management association (EFAMA) has welcomed the work done to improve and render the initial proposals of the European Commission more functional, while also pointing out some further points of weakness.“The members of EFAMA manage both variable net asset value (VNAV) and constant net asset value (CNAV) money market funds. From the start, we have held that balanced and measured regulations which assure the viability of both CNAV and VNAV funds can favour the development of alternative sources of financind ffor the real economy, a key elemtn in the flagship initiative ODF the European Commission to create a capital markets union (CMU),” says Peter de Proft, director general of EFAMA, in a statement.However, the professional association claims that the operational challenges associated with the management of VNAV funds have been minimized. One of the major questions the agreement raises is centred on the calculation of liquidity for money market funds. EFAMA considers that on this issue of liquidity, the lack of an approach based on principles will complicate the task for actors in determining whether the arbitrary levels set in the final agreement can function in various market scenarios. EFAMA also regrets that money market funds cannot operate as funds of funds, a structure which is often used by VNAV fund managers for diversification reasons. EFAMA also questions the functioning of the new regulations concerning diversification. Lastly, the association raises some practical issues concerning the implementation of “Know Your Customer” requirements, as, from its point of view, periodical examinations of internal credit quality will not be possible for smaller market actors.For its part, the financial ratings agency Fitch Ratings estimates that the decision to require the implementation of liquidity fees or redemption gates to slow massive demand for redemption of shares at times of high turbulence on the markets will create uncertainty concerning the evolution of investor demand. However, the agency estimates that the European market will not be likely to have disturbances like those observed on the US market. The impact of the new rules will be attenuated by the introduction of a new category of money market fund, so-call low volatility net asset value (LVNAV) funds. It also estimates that European funds which invest in sovereign debt will be less attractive to investors than their US equivalents.Despite the improvements made to the bill, “we cannot ignore a number of remaining questions about the potential consequences of various parts of the agreement. It remains to be seen whether the smaller players will be able to continue to operate, in light of the much more elaborate information and compliance requirements, at a time when margins remain low,” De Proft concludes.