Newsmanagers analysis: why acquisition of Pioneer by Amundi is not a foregone conlusion


Amundi and Unicredit yesterday morning announced that they have entered exclusive negotiations over the acquisition of Pioneer, the asset management affiliate of Unicredit, by Amundi.Having been selected to negotiate exclusively to acquire Pioneer, the French firm Amundi has emerged as the winner of the bidding war that has raged for the past few months.The choice sets Amundi apart from the other contenders, including an Italian group composed of Poste Italiane, Anima and Cassa Depositi e Prestiti, which would have allowed Pioneer to remain Italian. However, Poste Italiane appears lately to have resigned itself to defeat, as its chair has recently announced that, regardless of the outcome of the Pioneer sale, it will be pursuing its development in asset management in partnership with Anima. Among the other names cited as potential buyers was the US firm Ameriprise and the Australian Macquarie, who did not draw much comment. Aberdeen, for its part, in late November announced that it was dropping out of the bidding due to the high price. According to the Financial Times, this price is said to be over EUR3bn. A merger between Amundi and Pioneer would put Amundi in charge of EUR1.3trn. Amundi has EUR1.054trn in assets under management, while Pioneer has EUR225bn, according to the most recent statistics from the two groups. There are primarily two major benefits from this “transformative” operation, according to Alexandre Blondel, director of Equinox-Cognizant. “This will give Amundi access to the distribution network of UniCredit in Europe and more particularly in Italy and Germany, which will allow it to sell its products with attractive margins.” Meanwhile, “it must not be forgotten that Pioneer is originally an American asset management firm. So, the acquisition will give Amundi access to a number of expertise in the United States (New York, Boston, Chicago), as US fixed income, and to US institutional clients.”Blondel claims that the two players are “relatively complementary.” Pioneer is completely absent from ETFs, alternative assets and money market funds, asset classes in which Amundi is more developed.Concerning the potential layoffs which generally accompany operations of this type (in this case, these could be in support positions, but also potentially European equities,) Blondel points out that Amundi is growing strongly and this will create opportunities for staff.The question remains as to whether the transaction will take place. It will be remembered that a few years ago, Pioneer was put up for sale and was finally retained by UniCredit. More recently, the company was married off to Santander Asset Management, but this operation was also abandoned. “These merger and acquisitions are never done deals at this stage,” admits Blondel. Additionally, he says, “the political climate in Italy and France could be source of constraints for the deal.” Although this time Unicredit certainly needs more owners’ equity than in the past, the other candidates for this acquisition should not be ruled out too hastily.