AFG requests creation of asset management free trade zones in France


“By 2025 we will have made Paris a ‘hub ' of asset management in a unified European market with 450 million inhabitants, not counting the United Kingdom.” This is the promise of Didier Le Ménestrel, chairman of the competitiveness mission of the French asset management association (AFG, Association française de la gestion), and also head of La Financière de l’Echiquier, on 22 November. A few days after unveiling seven measures from the Frog report to improve international distribution of funds and the attractiveness of the Paris market, a White Paper now presents 10 “solutions” to “change the game,” this time for the competitiveness of the Paris marketplace.Many of the points are shared with the Frog report, which was supported by the AMF, the French stock market regulator. But some proposals, which have been subject to intense lobbying in Paris and to the European Commission, are in line with these. Due to the fact that “taxation is never far off” with the reforms that it is requesting, the AFG wishes to create free trade zones for the asset management industry “in eastern France and in the Paris region.” The idea is to repatriate jobs which have moved to Luxembourg. “There are 75,000 French residents who cross the border every day to work there, though Luxembourg fundamentally has no competitive advantage aside from taxation. The same applies to Dublin. I am sure that by repatriating these jobs, the French state would ultimately benefit fiscally,” says Yves Perrier, chairman of the AFG, and also CEO of Amundi.The AFG has also floated a series of European ideas, which it has supported for some time: these include the creation of a common individual retirement savings product for all Europeans. In this area the AFG is preparing another White Paper, and would like to “make Paris a point of entry to this subject. … If we want to be heard, we need a product common to all,” says Le Menestrel.The AFG is also proposing the creation of an EU identification number (ISIN) for European OPCs subject to a free circulation directive. “It is astonishing that when one things of the UCITS format today, one thinks of Luxembourg, one thinks of the ‘lux’ ISIN. Luxembourg has appropriated a product which is fundamentally European. And the Commission has understood that point of ours very well, it has been well-received. Our proposal has been picked up by Efama, the European asset management association,” Le Menestrel explains. Any who may have doubted will see that the competition now seems to have kicked off.