FCA expresses concerns over lack of price competition in asset management


The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) on Friday made public an interim report of over 200 pages on the asset management market, representing over GBP7,000trn. Its primary finding? There is “weak price competition in a certain number of areas in asset management.” The British regulator had launched a market study in November, to evaluate the correct operation of market competition in this market, with a desire in particular to ensure that retail and institutional investors are able to obtain the best price/quality relation possible for their asset management services. The result is that the FCA is not entirely satisfied.The FCA is therefore proposing a series of measures to make competition to function better. The FCA recommends increasing the requirements for asset management firms to act in the best interests of investors. It does not rule out the possibility that asset management firms may be required to provide more reporting on the price/quality relationship for their services. It is also proposing that a single price list be presented for fees and commissions, so that investors can easily be informed of the costs for a fund. The FCA is also considering measures to help retail investors to identify the most relevant funds, by requiring managers to be more clear and transparent about the objectives of the fund, and to clarify and strengthen use of benchmarks, and also to provide tools to investors to help them identify underperformance.The FCA is meanwhile also requiring clearer communication of costs as part of the communications made to retail clients. It would also like to see greater transparency and better standardisation of costs and information about fees for institutional investors.Lastly, the FCA has not ruled out invoking the powers of the British Competition and Markets Authority (CMA) to examine the investment consultancy market, which it estimates is rife with conflicts of interest.Asset management firms and investment consultants have until 20 February 2017. The final report will be published in second quarter 2017.