“The people have been ignored for the sake of an increase in financial assets” -


Newsmanagers: After the surprise election of Donald Trump, how will the markets behave over the next few months in your opinion?Didier Saint-Georges: The election of Donald Trump is confirmation of, and may even accelerate, a major change. 30 years of liberal globalisation have been brutally contested in the voting booths. In this sense it is a major event. From many points of view, the result of the British vote for Brexit is the same, and set the premises for the American vote. This change is going to reorient economic policies towards Keynesianism, meaning stimulating the economy through debt, under the cover of protectionist, not to say isolationist, policies. Initially, this movement will prolong the appetite of the markets for cyclical sectors. Of course as examples I would site suppliers of materials for infrastructure, and energies in general. Maybe the banking sector. But soon the issue of financing, and its impact on inflation, will arise. The fixed income markets will then be very seriously put in question. Lastly, questions may be raised about the credibility of central banks, if they have to engage endlessly. Lastly, although a rebalancing of the famous monetary “policy mix” towards budgetary policy may be favourable to growth, at least temporarily, it will be accompanied, particularly in Europe, by an increase in political risks, due to populism.Newsmanagers: Have you modified your strategy in the wake of this result?Didier Saint-Georges: No, since this is a ‘simple’ acceleration of a deeper phenomenon, for which the Brexit vote allowed us to measure the concrete reality, and to adjust the construction of portfolios as a consequence.Newsmanagers: In Europe, the markets are very weak in the face of a potential stoppage of accommodating monetary policy by the ECB. Do you think they are right?Didier Saint-Georges: Let’s say that Mario Draghi, as an Italian, has Florentine subtlety. He has since 2012 been talking to European states, telling them that they are wrong not to use the time this accommodating monetary policy gives them to undertake the necessary structural reforms. Contrary to the Fed, he does not yet say that governments need to plan a budgetary and fiscal comeback to take over and support growth. Mario Draghi apparently would not like to be in this role, and anyway Germany would not agree. But in such an environment, it is useful to look at what the central bank of Japan (BoJ) has done. They have engaged not to buy back government bonds for a set amount each month, but instead will aim for a target interest rate of zero for 10-year government bonds. It is thus creating an opening for a policy to repurchase larger or also smaller quantities of assets.Newsmanagers: Why is that attractive?….Read the rest of the interview on the French version of the website: www.newsmanagers.comp { margin-bottom: 0.25cm; line-height: 120%; }a:link { }