“Abuse of morphine creates junkies, not strong economies”


(The following are excerpts from the interview. Read the entire interview on the French version of www.newsmanagers.com)Newsmanagers: How has the capital at Tobam developed over the past few years?Yves Choueifaty: Initially, Tobam was 100% controlled by employees. There were seven of us at the start, including five researchers. CalPERS in 2011, and then Amundi in 2012 became shareholders. The capital is 80% controlled by employees. And we should emphasize that 100% of employees are shareholders in the firm. Amundi and CalPERS now control 12% and 8% of capital, respectively. Our personnel is now 47 people, with 15 researchers, The last two recruitments were also researchers, which makes Tobam composed one third of researchers. We have always reinvested a part of our growth in research.Newsmanagers: How do your offerings break down?Yves Choueifaty: Our offerings have two main dimensions. The 14 Anti-Benchmark® strategies (13 equity strategies, and one bond strategy) make it possible to cover virtually the entire planet, although there is still potential for development. The other dimension of our offerings is the development of indices. This is an activity which we are planning to develop over the next few years. We currently offer 11 indices in the equity universe.Newsmanagers: Has the volatility of the markets, and Brexit in particular had an impact on your performance?Yves Choueifaty: So far as Brexit goes, all of our funds have done well, with the exception of one strategy dedicated to British equities, for one simple reason: due to the context of increased aversion to risk, the concentrations of the British index on stocks related to the price of gold were rewarded. Currently, the equity markets are more or less efficient. However, there are significant bubbles of inefficiency in bonds, particularly government bonds. It is clear why. The central bank has done good work as an anaesthetist but it has not donned its surgeon’s smock. We have not had the room to manoeuvre to make the necessary reforms… Interventionism by the central bank is dragging on. Instead of anaesthetic, we wind up thinking we are getting surgery… but morphine abuse produces junkies, not strong economies. In the absence of real reforms, the weaning and withdrawal may be painful.