New twist in Pioneer saga


Amundi very officially wants to acquire Pioneer Investments, the asset management affiliate of UniCredit, which the bank is seeking to sell, but not at any price, according to a message delivered on Wednesday morning by the French asset management firm, an affiliate of Crédit Agricole. The statement marks a moment in the acquisition of Pioneer since it is the first time that one of the suitors to the acquisition has openly declared themselves.Amundi has announced that the project “comes as part of the development strategy presented at its initial public offering.” However, the French asset management firm “does not accept the valuation levels for Pioneer which are attributed to it.”When asked, the firm did not state the sum it is seeking. It is only known that the amount of owners equity available, which could be used to finance external growth operations, officially totals EUR1.5bn.But Amundi points out that “its acquisition policy follows strict financial criteria, including a return on investment of over 10% over a three-year horizon.”The announcement comes “following a number of rumours reported in the Italian newspaper Il Messaggero, concerning a submission by Amundi of a non-binding bid to acquire Pioneer,” the statement says.A first article published on 6 October by the Italian newspaper claimed that the French asset management firm had submitted a bid of about EUR4bn to acquire Pioneer Investments. The information has also been confirmed to Reuters.In a second article published on 18 October, Il Messaggero went further, and reported that Amundi may increase its bid as far as EUR4.2bn to EUR4.3bn, to outbid an Italian group vying for the acquisition, which includes Poste Italiane, Cassa Depositi e Prestiti and Anima. The Italian postal service, according to the Italian newspaper, is also seeking to borrow EUR2.5bn to EUR3bn to be able to match the bid from Amundi.Pioneer had previously been valued at about EUR2.5bn-EUR3bn, with EUR227bn in assets under management.According to Il Sole 24 Ore of 19 October, Poste Italiane is reported to have defined the structure for its bid for Pioneer. It may propose two levels of holdings, with the first holding composed of the Poste for 80% and CDP for 20%, with a financial contribution of EUR2.5bn (EUR500m from CDP and the remainder from financing taken on by the Poste). In a second holding level, which would be the vehicle for the bid, Anima would participate. The Italian economics and finance newspaper cites a price nearer to EUR3bn.The other interested players are reported to include the Australian firm Macquarie and the British firm Aberdeen, both of which have been more discreet.The results of the bids will be announced by the end of the year. The deadline to submit bids is reported to have been postponed from 3 November until mid-November, according to a report on the Italian website Milano Finanza on 19 October.