Many countries move to strengthen longevity of their pension systems


Since 2014, many countries have increased the longevity of their pension systems, according to the findings of an analysis carried out as part of the 2016 edition of the Allianz Pension Sustainability Index, which covers 54 countries. Despite an accelerated of a faster than expected ageing of populations, reforms engaged are helping to ensure the survival of the main pension systems.In a manner similar to the situation in 2014, the most lasting pension systems over the long term will be those in Australia, Denmark, Sweden, the Netherlands, Norway and New Zealand. The countries which have shown the most progress (gaining more than five places in the rankings, at constant perimeter) are Chile, France, Japan, Malaysia and Mexico. Croatia, Ireland, Italy, Russia and Switzerland have seen the steepest drops. China and Thailand, penalised by fragmented and inefficient systems, remain the weakest.In 2016, the study has been extended to include Argentina, Colombia, Peru and the Philippines. In these countries, where the parallel economy remains important, the coverage of various retirement systems is relatively limited, and the risk of poverty is a significant threat to seniors. However, populations in Argentina, Peru and the Philippines remain young, and experts anticipate a relatively gradual ageing of the population in these three countries, which leaves them time to carry out reforms. The situation is somewhat different in Colombia, where a rapid ageing of the population is expected, and where the level of public debt compared to GDP is high.“Pension reforms initiated in many countries nearly 10 years ago, particularly to raise the retirement age and lower pension benefits in order to keep up with lengthening life expectancy, is beginning to have an effect. Behaviours are also changing, as target populations seek to benefit from the advantages offered by these reforms. This is all a good sign for future generations, particularly for generation Y,” says Brigitte Miksa, head of the international pensions team at Allianz Asset Management.In France, the situation has improved since the last study in 2014. At constant perimeter, France has gained six places in the rankings of countries, and now stands in 35th place. “This improvement is due to an increase in the effective retirement age, as well as a favourable revision of projections of pension spending as a proportion of GDP in 2050. The index finds a contrasted French situation, in which demographic vitality and relative stability of the public pension system are offset by weakness of public finances,” explains Mylène Sabatini, author of the report and an economist at Allianz.