“We have created a department dedicated to investment solutions”


NEWSManagers: How do you sum up activities in first half 2016? Daniel Roy: We have EUR179.5bn in assets under management as of the end of June, compared with EUR177bn as of the end of December 2015. This growth is due to positive inflow effects, particularly in retail banking, thanks to the recent launch of our flexible allocation product range. This multi-asset range, available from 17 May, has drawn EUR450m in inflows as of the end of June. We think that it perfectly meets the savings needs of our clients. We are also increasingly offering specialist strategies (debt funds, protected equities) for our larger corporate clients, including CNP. These strategies worked well in first half. We have also won large mandates, particularly from the Fonds de Réserve des Retraites and ERAFP.NEWSManagers: You have merged with Fédéris Gestion d’Actifs. How is the integration of this company going?Daniel Roy: The merger was completed on 30 April. Since then, we have completed the integration of teams, which are now at a single location, and we have merged the organisations. We now have 216 employees, on rue de la Fédération in Paris. This acquisition brings us two fundamental items: firstly, we gain ground in the area of equities, and secondly, we are developing further in socially responsible investment (SRI) and sustainable development, two strong areas for Fédéris Gestion d’Actifs. We are also planning to put this SRI expertise to use to develop a product range and to play a major role in this area. We also have the expertise of Fédéris Gestion d’Actifs in EuroPPs, which allows us to extend our product range on this side. Ultimately, everyone found a place in the new organisation. We still need to work on the tools, such as reporting, which will be integrated into a single platform, and the accounting tools.NEWSManagers: What is the new organisation put in place following this merger?Daniel Roy: Fédéris allows us to strengthen in terms of resources and teams. Following the merger, we have decided to set up an organisation with six management units: diversified management, equity management and SRI management; fixed income management; debt funds; strategy; intermediation, and finally, investment solutions. We have just created this last department, which unites management and sales. It has been led since June 2016 by Gerard Moerman, who had worked at our partner Aegon Asset Management.