Degroof Petercam plans to develop wealth management activities


François Wohrer, head of the bank Degroof Petercam in France, feels that wealth management is one of the priorities for the new firm. “We are already among the independent leaders in private banking. With this in mind, we would like to develop further on the French market, with an offer to differentiate us on the basis of our various areas of expertise, and our already strong presence in continental Europe,” Wohrer, who is also head of private banking, tells NewsManagers. He adds that the group has banking licenses in Belgium, Luxembourg, Switzerland, Spain and France.To achieve these objectives, Wohrer is preferring organic growth, with highly sharpened teams of experts, 14 private bankers or family officers, three wealth management engineers and five portfolio managers, not to mention acquisition target research. Degroof Petercam has several offices in France, in addition to Paris, Lille, and Toulouse, Lyon, where Wohrer also plans to add operations. “We have an office in Lyon with a corporate finance team, but we are planning to set up a team dedicated to wealth management in 2017,” says Wohrer.“We don’t have any other provincial development projects in the short term,” Wohrer adds, though external growth has not been ruled out. “We are not ruling anything out. We may develop on our own strength, but an acquisition is also to be considered if it makes sense as part of our strategy and in terms of corporate culture,” says Wohrer.Meanwhile, the firm claims to have all that is needed to meet the needs fo clients, including entrepreneurs, in light of its close ties to the business bank. “We have highly developed culture with boutique style. And the technical level we deliver is very high,” says Lionel Saint Georges Chaumet, head of the family office. “The method of billing for family office services is based exclusively on commission, which provides the independence necessary for full consideration of the direction for private and professional assets for each client,” the head adds.It must also be mentioned that the family office is not available to everyone. To get there, one must have total assets of about EUR15m, with about EUR3m to EUR5m of financial assets. This falls to EUR1m for wealth management clients, and EUR300,000 for private banking clients. And dedicated funds begin at EUR8m.This being the case, it is best to hold onto clients. One year after the merger of Degroof and Petercam, Wohrer promises that the transition has gone very well, with minimal departures: continuity in change.