Man Group reshuffles senior management


Man Group has announced a new senior management structure for the firm, alongside a number of internal promotions. These appointments follow the naming of Luke Ellis as CEO. Jonathan Sorrell’s role as President of Man Group has developed to include a number of areas across the business and the intention is that he will step down as the Chief Financial Officer (CFO), following an orderly transition to the new CFO. Under his new remit as President, Jonathan will focus alongside Luke on strategic and commercial areas that are fundamental to the firm’s plan and development, with direct responsibility for sales, corporate strategy, M&A, private markets and Man FRM. Jonathan will remain on the Board of the firm. His promotion to co-President of the firm in June was reflective of the broader remit and leadership role he has undertaken throughout his 5 year tenure at Man Group. The Board intends to appoint Mark Jones, currently Co-CEO of Man GLG, as Chief Financial Officer and as an Executive Director of Man Group plc. Subject to regulatory approval, he will assume the CFO role following a handover from Jonathan Sorrell. There are no details relating to this appointment to be disclosed under Listing Rule 9.6.13. Sandy Rattray has been appointed as Chief Investment Officer of Man Group, assuming responsibility for Man AHL, Man Numeric, Man GLG and Man Solutions. This was previously part of Luke Ellis’ role while he served as President of the firm. He will remain CEO of Man AHL and will continue to lead the business strategy. In his expanded role, Sandy will be able to leverage his deep expertise across the group’s investment managers. Robyn Grew has been appointed to the newly created position of Chief Administrative Officer of Man Group. She will have responsibility for the firm’s infrastructure, operations, technology, compliance, legal, human resources and facilities functions, allowing Man Group to focus further on ensuring it has best in class operational functions and a working environment that attracts and retains the best talent in the industry. Robyn was previously Man Group’s General Counsel and Global Head of Legal and Compliance.Man Group also announces changes today at its discretionary fund management business, Man GLG. Pierre-Henri Flamand has been appointed as Chief Investment Officer, in which role he will work alongside Teun Johnston who remains Chief Executive Officer.Additionally, Tim Wong, Executive Chairman of Man AHL and a member of the Man Group Executive Committee, will become Chairman of Man Group Asia. Tim will take over the role from Pierre Lagrange, who will concentrate his focus on Man GLG’s ELS strategy, leveraging more than three decades of experience in portfolio management and investment research.