EFG International presents composition of its future management after acquisition of BSI


p { margin-bottom: 0.25cm; line-height: 120%; } EFG International has published the composition of the future management of the group, once the acquisition of the Ticino-based bank is completed, probably in fourth quarter. EFG has also announced that it is holding an extraordinary general assembly on 26 July to approve the structure of the financing of the operation previously envisaged, to create additional authorised capital of 15 million registered shares, with a nominal value of CHF0.50 per share. The executive board at EFG will include 13 members, five of whom will come from BSI. It will be led by Joachim Strähle, CEO of the group, with the assistance of Giorgio Pradelli, CFO. The five future members of the management coming from BSI will be Renato Cohn (investments), Reto Kunz (risk management), Maurizio Moranzoni (global markets), Gérald Robert (Latin America) and Renato Santi (central Switzerland, Ticino and Italy). They will be based in Lugano, with the exception of Robert, who will work in Geneva. Following the resignation of BSI CEO Stefano Coduri, due to a financial scandal related to the Malaysian sovereign fund 1MDB, the board of directors at the Lugano-based firm had appointed one of its members, Roberto Isolani, to ensure a “smooth” transition. Isolani joins the board of directors at the future merged entity as representative of the current owner, BTG Pactual, as does Steve Jacobs, the Swiss wealth management firm announced in April. EFG has also announced the departure of two members of its current board, once the merger is completed. They are James Lee, who will be “leaving the firm afterward,” and Frederick Link, who will remain as chief risk officer (CRO) at EFG during a transitional period, after which he will retain a “management function” at the group, a statement says. After completing the merger, BSI will continue to operate as an “autonomous affiliate of EFG International until its complete integration,” expected in mid-2017. In the period until finalisation and integration, BSI will continue its activities with its current structures, the group adds.