Investors too often caught on back foot in buy and sell strategies


We all know that in investment, good timing is the hardest thing in the world to achieve. The latest Morningstar study of the impact of inflows and outflows to funds on returns shows it once again. Investors continue to buy and sell when the time is wrong. “Investors tend to buy at the peak and sell at the bottom, which loses them returns off the gains a fund earns. Our data on returns for investors show that investment decisions taken ten years ago have a multiplying impacft over the years,” says Russel Kinnel, chairman oof the North American ratings committee at Morningstar and editor of Morningstar FundInvestor. “Despite some improvement year by year in the statistics on returns for investors, the latest figures show that investors are still having real difficulty using mutual funds correctly,” Kinnel continues.Comparing the returns earned by investors with data on the total returns of a fund, Morningstar found that equity and bond trades made at the wrong times cost investors between 0.74% and 1.32% per year over a 10-year period to 31 December 2015. On average per year, returns on investments lagged 1.13% behind total returns over 10-year periods ending between 2012 and 2015.Investors in allocation funds saw the smallest difference between total returns and investor returns, with 17 basis points, over a 10-year period up to December 2015. The largest difference was for investors in municipal bonds (132 basis points).Investors make the best returns with asset management firms which treat shareholders in funds well.Another finding of the study is that low-cost funds have a smaller gap between total returns and investor returns than the more costly funds. Returns in the least costly quartile of all funds is 6.5% on an annualised basis over a five-year period, compared with a total return of 6.39%. However, in the most expensive quartile, the investor earns returns of 3.43% on an annualised basis, compared with total returns of 4.8%. This also shows that the lowest-cost funds bring higher returns than the most costly.