Robeco extensively reshuffles its activities


Robeco has announced that it is spinning off its activities, with Robeco Institutional Asset Management on one side, and Robeco Group on the other. Robeco Institutional Asset Management will acquire a supervisory board and a board of directors “in order to put the emphasis on its position as a global independent asset management firm with the Robeco name, and its headquarters in Rotterdam,” Robeco says in a statement. For its part, Robeco Group will gradually transform from an operating company into a financial holding company.The new governance structure will also result in a separation of the holding activities of Robeco Group from the asset management activities of its affiliates, Boston Partners, Harbor Capital Advisors, Transtrend, RobecoSAM and Robeco.Robeco will have its own dedicated supervisory board. It will be composed of Jeroen Kremers (chairman), Jan Nooitgedagt and Gihan Ismail. “Other members of the supervisory board will be announced in the near future,” the asset management firm says. Both Jan Nooitgedagt and Jeroen Kremers serve as members of the supervisory board at Robeco Groep. Gihan Ismail has 20 years of experience in the financial services sector, and is currently executive director of Marine Capital Limited.Day-to-day management will be assumed by Leni Boeren, Roland Toppen, Peter Ferket, Ingo Ahrens and Karin van Baardwijk, who form the executive board at Robeco. Boeren will assure the transition to the new governance and will remain as a member of the board until the transition is complete. However, Boeren, who has been a member of the board at Robeco Groep since 2005, will be leaving the group after this transition, Robeco has announced. Boeren is currently vice-chairman of the board at the group, and serves in several positions on boards at the affiliates Boston Partners, Harbor Capital Advisors, Transtrend, Robeco Institutional Asset Management and RobecoSAM.Robeco Group, transformed into a holding company, will not exercise any asset management activities in future. Pending the approval of the regulatory authorities, the suppervisory board and the director will be replaced by a simplified board led by Makoto Inoue, currently chairman and CEO of Orix Corporation, shareholder in Robeco. As part of the new governance, the outgoing chairs of the two boards, Bert Brugging and David Steyn respectively, will be resigning from their positions and will join the Orix group. The other members of the supervisory board at Robeco Groep will also resign once the new governance is set up.