Deutsche AM adds to strategic beta product range


p { margin-bottom: 0.25cm; line-height: 120%; } The German asset management firm Deutsche Asset Management has added to its strategic beta bond product range, with the launch of a new ETF of emerging market sovereign debt. The new vehicle, entitled db x-trackers iBoxx USD Emerging Sovereigns Quality Weighted UCITS ETF, is a bond ETF weighted by the quality of issuers, which offers exposure to government bonds from emerging markets. The new product, listed on the London Stock Exchange and Deutsche Börse, succeeds the first Strategic Beta bond ETF, launched in December 2015, based on an index of quality-weighted euro zone government bonds, the asset management firm says in a statement. The new ETF replicates a new index, the Markit iBoxx USD Emerging Markets Sovereigns Quality Weighted Index, which weights countries in emerging markets using a unique weighting method by quality, on the basis of fundamental factors. “The distribution of traditional indices is based on the market value of debt issued by the country, which supposes a higher weight for countries with more debt,” Deutsche AM says. “Due to its weighting based on fundamental factors, the quality-weighted index is used to counterbalance the trend for bond benchmarks to overweight issuers with higher levels of debt,” the asset management firm adds. Bonds composing the benchmark index are selected according to an adjustment method with values sovereign issues on the basis of a series of fundamental criteria, such as competitiveness and the rate of inflation, default track record, the weight of sovereign debt as a percentage of gross domestic product (GDP), and the rate of GDP growth. Countries which are currently overweight in the Emerging Markets Quality Weighted index, as compared with the traditional index, include the Philippines and Turkey. Underweight countries include Brazil and Venezuela. The new ETF is a physical replication, and has a total expense ratio of 0.50% for shares in US dollars.