FCA calls on asset management firms for clarity in description of funds


p { margin-bottom: 0.25cm; line-height: 120%; } Of 23 retail funds studied by the Financial Conduct Authority, seven do not clearly describe the way in which they are managed in the key investor information document (KIID). Of this group, five use an index-based approach “which should have been disclosed,” and another uses jargon which may not be understood by retail investors, the British regulator reveals. “It is important for asset management firms to ensure that the description of their products is clear and correct, because investors and financial advisers take investment decisions for authorised funds on the basis of this information. That includes disclosing whether the funds have a strategy based on an index, and whether the flexibility of the manager to invest differently from this index is limited,” it says. The FCA is carrying out a study of 23 funds and four mandates from 19 British asset management firms, to verify that they are being managed in line with the expectations of investors, and published the results on 7 April. Although overall it is satisfied with the situation, the British authority has observed some shortfalls. In the midst of a controvery surrounding ‘closet trackers,’ or funds which pretend to be active, it has found that three actively-managed equity funds use enhanced index-based strategies without revealing this. The regulator also calls the attention of asset mangement firms to the issue of funds which are no longer actively sold. It has identified four in its sample, and all of these pose problems. “The investment strategy was not clearly divulged to clients in any of the funds, and in one case the governance of the firm did not ensure fair treatment of clients,” the FCA says. Lastly, the authority observed that some asset management firms do not actively monitor the distribution of their funds. They are also responsible as providers of distributed third-party fund products.