Generali Investments seeks to develop asset management activities serving third parties


p { margin-bottom: 0.25cm; line-height: 120%; } Generali Investments last year already announced ambitions to grow serving external clients. Santo Borsellino, CEO of Generali Investments, confirmed this strategic positioning on 3 March in Paris. “Over the past two years, we have worked with this engagement and made significant investments to develop the firm, strengthen our expertise in insurance asseet management, and bring growth to our activities serving third parties,” says Santo Borsellino. With this in mind, Generali Investments has developed its organization, process, product range, distribution strategy and its brand, to position itself against the competition on the international asset management market. The firm is aiming to bring in about EUR8bn in assets for third parties in the next three years. Currently, assets for third parties total EUR17bn, still a very modest sum compared with the total assets under management by Generali Investments, totalling over EUR430bn as of the end of 2015. But the top Italian asset management firm is planning to develop the situation, particularly on the French market, in the private banking sector. Of EUR17bn for third parties, about 65% were coming from the Italian and French markets, says Andrewa Favaloro, director of development and marketing. Of course, Generali Investments will concentrate its efforts, at least initially, on consolidated markets in Italy, France and Germany, but its perimeter of activity is also expected to extend. The asset management firm has recently been granted permission by Banca d’Italia to operate as a service provider in the United Kingdom, Sweden, Denmark and Norway. In light of developments in Britain, Generali Investments has not ruled out opening of office in the United Kingdom by the end of the year. Regardless, these new regions, outside consolidated markets (in addition to the three main ones, Spain, Portugal, Belgium, Luxembourg, the Netherlands and Austria), give Generali Investments an opportunity to participate in markets with strong potential for growth, characterised by a high concentration of institutional assets and developed complementary retirement systems.