Pension funds develop within constraints of the time


p { margin-bottom: 0.25cm; line-height: 120%; } At a time when pension funds are confronting a growing list of difficulties, a survey commissions by State Street, carried out in 20 countries, and covering 400 professionals at retirement regimes, reveals that these institutions are planning to make one or more changes to their governance models in 92% of cases. More than two thirds (68%) are planning at least three changes. Transparency and the frequency of reporting and diffusion of data are among the largest improvements under consideration. More than two out of five respondents (41%) is planning to increase the degree of granularity or the frequency of reporting to the board of directors in 2016, while a comperable percentage are planning to increase transparency in communication with their members concerning governance and the performance of investments in their pension fund. The changes come at a time when according to the survey, only 38% of respondents feel the level of financial expertise at their fiduciary bodies is “very solid.” The article, published on 23 February under the title “Pensions with Purpose: Meeting the Retirement Challenge,” also finds that only 36% of respondents feel their capacities to understand risks run by the pension funds they supervise is “very solid.” Only one third (32%) put a high level of confidence in their fiduciaries for considering strategic factors beyond short-term problems which may affect the portfolio over the long term. Regimes which adopt a more advanced governance approach claim they can eliminate their deficits more quickly than the rest of the industry, and they will also incurease their exposure to alternative products, with 60% planning to invest more in hedge funds in the coming year. At the same time as these governance changes, these pension regimes are also planning to reduce costs and diversify portfolios. For example, 80% are planning to merge assets and debts from multiple retirement regimes. Participants cite reduction in cost (24%) and improvement in operating efficiency (22%) as the main advantages of this consolidation.