EFG International takes over BSI


EFG International, the private banking group based in Zurich, this morning announced that it is to acquire the Lugano-based private bank BSI, according to an agreement signed on 21 February 2016 with BSI’s sole shareholder BTG Pactual. On a combined basis as of 31 December 2015, BSI and EFG had assets under management of approx. CHF 170 billion, which would imply the position of fifth largest private bank in Switzerland. «As a combined bank with currently 860 CROs globally, BSI and EFG will be able to leverage their private banking and asset management offerings and complementary geographic presence. Compared to EFG’s current position, the combined bank will have a much stronger foothold in Switzerland, in the canton of Ticino in particular, and in Italy, as well as benefiting from BSI’s presence in the Middle East. BSI will benefit from EFG’s strong position in the UK and established presence in Spain. Both banks will enhance their positions in Monaco and Luxemburg. In Asia – where EFG has a strong position in Hong Kong and BSI in Singapore – as well as in Latin America, both banks will almost double their assets under management», according to a press statement.EFG and BSI target pre-tax cost synergies of approx. CHF 185 million p.a., or circa 15% of the current combined cost base, which should come into full effect in 2019. More than half of the targeted cost synergies are intended to result from the migration to one common IT platform. Total one-off estimated implementation costs of approx. CHF 200 million are expected to be recognized until year-end 2018. Even assuming a potential attrition rate of around 5-10% of combined assets under management1 (with an estimated impact on profit before tax of approx. CHF 60-105 million), the transaction is expected to be accretive to earnings per share from 2018 onwards.Consideration for the purchase of BSI has been agreed to be paid in cash for a total of CHF 975 million, and through issuance of 52.6 million EFG shares to BTG Pactual against contribution in kind, subject to certain adjustments in case of dilution. As a result of the share issuance, BTG Pactual will have a stake of approx. 20% in EFG International and representation on its board of directors, subject to shareholder approval. Applying EFG’s closing price of CHF 6.70 on 19 February 2016 to the 52.6 million shares, the total purchase price would amount to approx. CHF 1,328 million, including agreed adjustments currently estimated at CHF 25 million. The purchase price will be further adjusted based on net new money between 30 November 2015 and closing, as well as for the change in tangible book value between 31 December 2015 and closing. Net profit until closing is therefore for the benefit of BTG Pactual.The purchase price compares with an estimated IFRS tangible book value for BSI of approx. CHF 1,428 million (Swiss GAAP for Banks: CHF 1,794 million) as at 31 December 2015.Pending shareholder approval at EFG International’s Annual General Meeting scheduled for 29 April 2016, EFG intends to raise capital through a CHF 500 million rights offering, as well as in the form of CHF 250 million Additional Tier 1 instruments. EFG Group has committed to invest at least CHF 125 million in the intended rights offering. In addition, EFG has obtained commitments for a volume underwriting of CHF 375 million from international investment banks.To the extent the intended rights offering would not be fully subscribed, BTG Pactual and EFG Group have committed to subscribe additional shares or Additional Tier 1 instruments for the purpose of providing deal-financing certainty. Consequently, BTG Pactual’s stake in EFG might increase up to a maximum of 30%. EFG Group will remain EFG’s largest shareholder with over 35%, and the combined bank will have a well-diversified shareholder base.Given the funding of the transaction through equity, capital ratios are expected to remain comfortably above regulatory requirements. Total capital ratio (Basel III fully loaded) for 2016 is expected to be above 15%.Subject to shareholder and regulatory approvals, completion of the transaction is expected in the fourth quarter of 2016.A new management structure for the combined business will take effect at closing, although BSI will continue to operate in its current form as a subsidiary of EFG International until the merger and the migration to one common IT platform, which are planned for completion by year-end 2017. Zurich, Geneva and Lugano will all remain important locations for the governance and operation of the combined bank.Both the BSI and the EFG brand will be retained. Following joint evaluation, the intention is to implement a combined brand – reflecting the heritage of both banks – in most geographies in the future, with possible exceptions such as in the canton of Ticino and Italy.