LBPAM, AXA IM and BFT IM among companies selected by FRR for bond mandates


p { margin-bottom: 0.25cm; line-height: 120%; } The French public pension fund Fonds de réserve pour les retraites (FRR) has published the results of a request for proposals launched on 23 January 2015 to select several investment service providers for the financial management of active management mandates consisting of corporate bonds and other securities issued in euros (lot 1) and in US dollars (lot 2) of “credit investment grade” category. Among the candidates selected are AXA IM, La Banque Postale Asset Management and BFT Investment Managers. Lot 1 covers the active management of six active management mandates composed of bonds and other securities issued in euros of “credit investment grade” category. At the conclusion of the selection process, the FRR decided to select offers from the following candidates: Allianz Global Investors GmbH, AXA Investment Managers Paris, HSBC Global Asset Management (France), Insight Investment Management (Global) Limited, Kempen Capital Management N.V. and La Banque Postale Asset Management. The mandates will be awarded for a duration of five years, which can be renewed once only for one year. The total indicative amount of assets placed for management may be EUR5.5bn. Lot 2 covers the active management of five management mandates composed of bonds and other securities issued in US dollars of “credit investment grade” category. At the conclusion of the selection process, the FRR has decided to select offers from the following candidates: AXA Investment Managers Paris (AXA Investment Managers Inc.), BFT Investment Managers (MacKayShields LLC), BlackRock Investment Management (UK) Limited (BlackRock Financial Management Limited), Morgan Stanley Investment Management Limited (Morgan Stanley Investment Management Inc.) and Wells Fargo Securities International Limited (Wells Capital Management, Inc.) The mandates will all be awarded for a period of five years, which can be renewed once only for one year. The total indicative amount of assets to be placed may total EUR5.5bn for lot 1, and EUR3bn for lot 2.