J.P. Morgan (Suisse) “severely infringed” money laundering law


The Swiss federal market surveillance authority, Finma, on 21 December announced that J.P. Morgan (Suisse) had “severely infringed” the terms of anti-money laundering legislation in its relations with the Malaysian sovereign fund 1MDB. “The criminal procedure conducted between May 2016 and late June 2017 found significant shortfalls on the part of J.P. Morgan (Suisse) SA in combating money laundering. This was largely in relation to its business ties and transactions connected with the suspected corruption case at the Malaysian sovereign fund 1MDB. The decision of Finma, which cannot be appealed, is final and legally binding,” Finma says in a statement.J.P. Morgan failed to adequately identify elevated risks of money laundering present in certain relationships related to this case. In other important relationships related to this case, the bank did identify the clients as politically exposed persons (PPE), but did not adequately process or monitor the increased risks that these specific relationships carried. The bank did, in its oversight of these business relationships, accept sometimes incomplete or incoherent information from clients, without adequately clarifying or documenting them. Internal controls and oversight which were in place at the time of these client relations and transactions did prove to be inadequate: some alerts generated by the system indicating elevated risk were closed on the basis of inadequate information, and some information communicated by clients was considered plausible without additional clarification.In light of these shortfalls in controls and the severe violations of the law observed in this case, Finma will submit the system of controls at the bank to a detailed examination, as part of the fight against money laundering. To this end, it has appointed an auditor, who will evaluate the case on site and monitor the appropriateness and correct functioning of controls on an ongoing basis. The processing of transactions which present increased risk, and particularly monitoring of transactions which occur between private and commercial accounts, represent the principal elements in this audit. Finma has additionally reported this case to the US financial oversight authority responsible for J.P. Morgan, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC).In light of the findings of its investigation, unlike some other proceedings related to the 1MDB case, Finma has not initiated prosecutions of any individuals. J.P. Morgan has not been sentenced to any fine or commercial restriction, and collaborated with the Finma investigation.