BVI calls for correction of excesses in MiFID II and PRIIPs


The German Investment Funds Association, BVI, is warning against differing information being given to investors under the Markets in Financial Instruments Directive (MiFID) II and the Packaged Retail and Insurance-based Investment Products (PRIIPs) Regulation coming into force in 2018. ‘From New Year investment fund unit buyers will face a patchwork of contradictory information in 2018’, says Thomas Richter, Chief Executive Officer of BVI. ‘Depending on the distribution channel, they will then receive up to four different documents for one and the same investment fund, with inconsistent content in key points. This will confuse consumers rather than making things clearer.’ BVI had already pointed out this problem to the regulators on several occasions in the past. For this reason, BVI is advocating a targeted revision of the rules issued by the EU Commission and the European supervisory authorities (ESAs). Thomas Richter commented: ‘Although MiFID and PRIIPs began as worthwhile consumer protection projects in 2012, they then developed into administrative monsters over the course of time. EU legislators have lost their sense of proportion and purpose, so they should correct the excesses quickly. In the case of PRIIPs, this could already be done during the upcoming review at the end of 2018.’ Currently investment companies and advisers provide retail investors with the UCITS KIID (Undertakings for Collective Investments in Transferable Securities’ Key Investor Information Document). It includes clear and comparable information about costs, performance and the risks of the particular investment fund. In the case of the Riester model (‘Riester investment funds’), investors additionally receive a product information sheet as required by law. Starting in January, a further addition will be the new information required under MiFID II, and in the case of investment fund policies, a PRIIPs KID with information on the individual funds. A comparison of these documents often leads to absurd results, e.g. in the costs: when fund units are bought, MiFID II and PRIIPs stipulate that the product costs shall be disclosed in euro and cent. Although the cost components are defined uniformly under MiFID II and PRIIPs, they are calculated differently, with the result that investors receive different information depending on the document. But that is not all: the costs under MiFID II and PRIIPs are in turn not identical with those in the Key Investor Information, and they differ again from the data in the Riester product information sheet. Accordingly, it is the distribution channel which determines the cost information that investors will ultimately receive concerning one and the same fund; i.e., depending on whether the investor buys it directly from the product provider, from the bank by way of securities distribution, or as fund-linked insurance. Investment fund investors should not be disconcerted by the flood of information and should seek the necessary clarification from their financial adviser, conclude the press release.