Russell Investments launches a Low Carbon equity fund


Russell Investments has launched an international low-carbon equity fund, aimed at French institutional investors. The new fund responds to growing global demand for responsible investment solutions which integrate management of climate change-related risks and the transition to a low-carbon economy, the firm explains. The fund is built around a strategy of investment exclusively in decarbonation, taking into account the value of this carbon, as well as green energy, and environmental, social and governance (ESG) criteria. The fund also makes it possible to offset sectoral and industrial biases inherent in conventional approaches to the cessation of carbon-intensive activities. “This solution makes it possible to significantly reduce exposure to carbon-intensive investments, and to invest in low carbon intensity renewable energy projects, without affecting performance,” says Scott Bennet, director of Equity Strategy & Research, Direct Investments, at Russell Investments. “This fund considerably reduces global exposure of the portfolio to carbon footprints and combustible fossil fuel reserves, while preserving the characteristics of investment in global equity markets.” The Russell Investments Global Low Carbon Equity Fund, which forms a part of equity investment, aims to reduce exposure to carbon footprints and fossil fuel reserves by 50% compared to its benchmark index, the MSCI World. Applying a new proprietary green energy ratio, the new low-carbon fund aims to weight the portfolio toward companies which have positive ESG characteristics, and toward those which contribute to the development of renewable energies. The green energy ratio, which is focused on producers of energy and calculates the proportion of energy produced which comes from sources of green energy, categorises each actor on the basis of a rating, ranging from “completely green” to “no exposure to sources of green energy.” This green energy ratio based on production is distinguished from strategies which calculate the impact of renewable energy on the basis of earnings ratios. The fund also goes beyond reduction of the carbon footprint by excluding investment in controversial arms such as cluster bombs and land mines. It also specifically excludes investment in companies with high levels of carbon consumption, and mining companies whose earnings related to fossil fuels are over 20%.