La Caisse des Dépôts makes new climate engagements for 2020


The Caisse des Dépôts has announced that the objectives it set at Climate Finance Day in 2015 for integrating climate change into its management of financial portfolios and project financing have been exceeded. For example, the carbon footprint of its equity portfolio, which weighs in at EUR55bn, has been reduced by 27% between 2014 and 2016, “compared with an objective of -20%,” says Olivier Mareuse, director of savings funds at the Caisse des Dépôts, at a conference held yesterday in Paris. The Caisse des Dépôts has decided to extend the commitment to reduce the carbon footprint of its bond portfolios by 20% in the period 2014-2020. The amounts collected for the sustainable and solidaristic development savings packet (Livret de Développement Durable et Solidaire) will be channeled to finance projects with a favourable climate impact. The Caisse des Dépôts has joined the Climate Action 100+ coalition, and has signed the charter for public investors for the climate (Charte des investisseurs publics en faveur du climat). The Climate Action 100+ initiative aims to unite and coordinate the largest international networks of asset investors on this issue, to seek an engagement for the 100 largest greenhouse gas emitters to improve their climate reporting, put appropriate governance in place for climate challenges, and to define and communicate their greenhouse gas emissions reduction initiatives. The Caisse des Dépôts also, at the Climate Finance Day on 11-12 December, signed the French investor charter for the climate (Charte des investisseurs français en faveur du climat), in which it joins Bpifrance. The signatories to this charter engage to implement shared principles, including the principles of shareholder dialogue, to ensure the consistency of their activities with the Paris Accord. For financing of TEE, the Caisse des Dépôts indicates that it has exceeded its engagement of EUR15bn dedicated between 2014 and 2017. “To develop new retail savings products for the climate, the sums collected fro LDDS will be used to issue loans to finance projects which have a favourable climate impact,” the institution says. In addition to these commitments, the Caisse des Dépôts on 22 February this year launched its first green bond, with a total of EUR500m, and a maturity of five years. The funds raised through this operation will be used to finance three sectors: high-performance real estate (new or extensive renovation), renewable energies, and site depollution.