Investors need to be more ambitious on climate change, says PRI


For the first time in three years, an increase in greenhouse gas emissions has been observed this year. “To have a change to achieve the objectives set by the Paris agreement, governments and investors need to commit more to support low-carbon initiatives,” says Fiona Reynolds, director general of the United Nations Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI). Taking environmental, social and governance (ESG) issues into account is a key factor in the emergence of a sustainable financial system. The PRI are therefore calling for a larger number of countries to step up their ambitions in terms of climate change, and to adopt the recommendations of the Financial Stability Board (FSB) Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD). The recommendations of this task force aim to lay out a consistent set of information to be supplied, on a voluntary basis, by companies themselves, concerning financial risks relative to climate change. The FSB task force, led by Michael R. Bloomberg, has formulated recommendations which may change the game, by providing investors with all the necessary information to allow them to take fresh action in the fight against climate change. Although more than 400 investors representing USD22bn in assets under management are reported to have asked the G20 to implement the recommendations of the TCFD, the United Kingdom is so far the only country to have publicly approved them. “We would like more countries to be more ambitious in the fight against climate change and to adopt the recommendations of the TCFD,” says Reynolds. “Professional investors also need to redouble their efforts to adapt their portfolios to the transition to a low-carbon economy, a move which is essential to protect financial performance for millions of beneficiaries. This means that they need to engage in dialogue with the companies in which they are invested, and to measure the steps they intend to take to evolve toward this new low-carbon world.” Investors also need to ensure that their voting discipline is in line with climate resolutions. They need to make sure that the boards of directors at these companies have the necessary expertise to take up the challenge of climate change. Lastly, investors need to continue to demand that governments put adequate frameworks and policies in place to direct investment flows into this low-carbon economy. This means starting to place significant taxes on carbon, and to gradually end subsidies for fossil fuels.”