Stock market rally expected to continue, but nearing end, says BAML


According to BofA Merrill Lynch market strategists, building investor optimism this year has been fueled by impressive stock returns and historic low volatility. Next year could be the year of euphoria. Sentiment is now a more important driver of the S&P 500 than fundamentals, and sentiment suggests there is still room for stocks to move higher in the near term. The bull market in the S&P 500 is on a path to become the longest ever on Aug. 22, 2018, and if equities outperform bonds for a seventh consecutive year, it would be the first time since 1928 and only the third time in the past 220 years. A top target of 2863 is forecast for the S&P 500 early in 2018, with the Nasdaq composite reaching 8000, before an anticipated 10 percent or greater correction, followed by slower growth for the remainder of the year. “We have entered the later stage of a long bull market, a phase of positive and improving economic growth that favors strong momentum and growth but also higher risk,” said Candace Browning, head of BofA Merrill Lynch Global Research. “History suggests that some of the best returns can come at the end of bull markets. With valuations and sentiment as high as they are, amid relative economic calm despite political turmoil, we view a pullback in the market next year as an expected norm. And for well-positioned investors, it could very well be a buying opportunity.” BofA Merrill Lynch investment strategists are bullish on stocks, bearish on bonds, long U.S. dollar, and long on volatility. Risk-reward for stocks remains attractive for long-term investors but less attractive for short-to-medium time horizons. Preference is for large caps over small caps, and dividend-growth stocks over high-dividend yield. Technology is expected to win on momentum, despite lofty valuations and bubble-like behavior. For sector allocations, BofA Merrill Lynch U.S. equity strategists have an overweight stance on technology, materials and financials; marketweight healthcare, consumer staples, industrials, energy and telecom; and underweight real estate, consumer discretionary and utilities. BofA Merrill Lynch equity strategists retain a positive view on European, Japanese and Emerging Markets