Fidelity lays out details of new pricing model


In October this year, Fidelity International announced a decision to apply a new pricing model to its funds, without providing further details. This was done yesterday. In a statement, the Bermuda-based company, a sister company of the US firm Fidelity Investments, explained the model, entitled “Variable Management Fees,” which will be applied from 1 March, and which will reduce fixed management fees for new share classes with Variable Management Fees to 0.10%. The variable part of the fees will adapt to rises and falls and the overperformance or underperformance of the fund, as compared to a predefined benchmark indicator, after all fees. This will range from a maximum of +0.20% over the fixed management fee level (ceiling) and a minimum of -0.20% below the management fees (floor). Fidelity International, which has a total of USD313bn in assets under management in 25 countries outside the United States, states that the maximum and minimum management fee levels will be attained when the fund outperforms the benchmark indicator by +2% (ceiling level) or underperforms by -2% (floor level), on an annual basis, and over gliding three-year period. “We have at heart a desire to offer our clients both selection and added value, and we think it is imperative to adopt innovative pricing practices so that active management can continue to prosper. Our variable management fee model assures that our interests will align with those of our clients. We think it is a decisive step, and an initiative which we hope to see adopted more broadly by the asset management industry,” says Brian Conroy, chairman of Fidelity International. Variable management fees will be introduced on 1 March 2018 for an initial wave of funds. They will then be applied to categories of fund shares which do not charge commissions (“clean share classes”) for 10 actively-managed equity funds (five OEIC and five SICAV vehicles, pending the permission of the regulatory authorities), representing nearly 17% of assets under management in all equity funds at Fidelity. Clients who invested via mandates and dedicated funds, such as institutional investors, will have access to custom versions of the variable management fee model specific to their investment vehicles. As to fixed fees, Fidelity International explains that the objective is to reduce fixed management fees by a level at lesat equivalent to the cost of external research. The cost related to this research is 2.28 basis points for the range overall, which would mean that lowering fixed management fees by 10 basis points is four times more than the cost of external research, he explains. Below are the funds from the Luxembourg Sicav which are involved in the first wave of creation of variable management fee share classes. New share classes within the Fidelity fund range will be launched subsequently. Share categories in Luxembourg Sicav: Fidelity Funds America Fund- Y -ACC - EUR Fidelity Funds America Fund - Y - ACC - USD Fidelity Funds Emerging Markets Focus Fund - I -ACC - USD Fidelity Funds Emerging Markets Focus Fund - Y -ACC - USD Fidelity Funds European Growth Fund Y - ACC - EUR Fidelity Funds European Larger Fund - Y ACC -EUR Fidelity Funds World Fund Y-ACC-EUR