More than 60% of pension funds expect to increase their allocations according to ESG parameters


European pension plans now consider long-term investing to be key to navigating the post - crisis environment , according to a report published by Create - Research and Amundi. In light of rising inflation, loosening monetary policy and the rise in populist government movements, pension funds are moving away from short term, risk averse strategies designed to cope with volatile markets in favour of investing for long term yield and growth. This is resulting in a wholesale review of asset allocation, and has also revealed that ESG investing has dramatically gone from niche to mainstream . The research questioned 161 pension plans with total assets of EUR1.71 trillion and was followed up by interviews with 30 senior executives to obtain detailed insights. Significantly, 61% of pension funds now expect to increase their allocations according to ESG parameters (Environment, Social and Governance ) in the next three years . ESG investing is now effectively a mainstream investment strategy, with a consensus emerging around the view that generating sustainable long - term returns require s a sustainable economy and society. There is also a moral imperative, while 27% said that ESG investing works for investors , 29% said that investors have a role to play and 50% of respondents cited exercising social responsibility as a driver of ESG investing. With interest rates still at all - time lows, investors are reviewing their asset allocation away from bonds, which are now seen as over - priced given their finite yields. The majority of funds ( 62% ) believe global equities are best suited to meet their plans’ goals over the next three years – in particular those high quality stocks offering good dividends, strong pricing power and tested brands that promote the so-called bondification of equities . Alternative credit and real estate debt are also becoming more popular due to the attractive yields on offer compared to bonds.