“Asset management firms have integrated the digital transformation into their 3 to 5 year strategic plans” - Linedata


NewsMANAGERS: How do asset management firms themselves perceive the digital transformation? Patricia Regnault-Fouqueray: The asset management industry continues to be confronted primarily with strong regulatory developments, such as the MiFID 2 directive, which are significantly dragging down investment by asset management firms. These regulatory issues still represent most of our work and projects. But it is true that players also have to invest very much in the future and in new technologies to confront new challenges in the sector. The main objective is to better process a considerable volume of data and to improve the user experience, while optimising costs; hence the use of artificial intellignce and/or Blockchain. Asset management firms need technological platforms which few have currently. To this end, we are assisting them to develop their tools with the creation of an incremental and modular platform. Asset management firms don’t need to miss the wave of digital transformation, since this allowes them to use open technologies to gain agility and efficiency, while remaining able to integrate new services. NewsManagers: You are talking about regulation. Where are asset management firms currently with MiFID 2? Patricia Regnault-Fouqueray: That is a topic which is focusing all attention, at general operational management offices. This regulation is highlighting the need to have robust tools to undertake transactional reporting, and of having platforms able to process an increasingly large volume of data. These data are at the heart of the system. We currently have between 70 and 80 projects for MiFID 2 alone. It is a regulation which requires significant human, technical and financial investment. NewsManagers: How are you approaching the digital transformation for asset management firms? Patricia Regnault-Fouqueray: We feel that there are three areas in the digital transformation: data and big data, with a need for asset management firms to be able to process and analyse this mass of data consistently and transversally; artificial intelligence; and lastly, blockchain. Our asset management firm clients have integrated these three areas into their three- to five-year strategic plans. This largely gives them roadmaps for their employees and clients. The objective is to have greater consistency and processing power, while optimising costs. NewsManagers: Have aset management firms really taken these challenges on board? … Read the rest of the intervew in the French version of NewsManagers