Amundi launches an employee savings robo-adviser


Robo-advisers are continuing to develop, and are now entering employee savings, hitherto limited to life insurance. Amundi will this morning announce the lauch of a 100% digital advising service as part of its employee savings offerings. The robo-adviser will assist corporate clients of Amundi, and their 3.8 million employees, to select investments for their corporate savings plans (Plan d'épargne entreprises, PER) oor collective retirement savings plans (Plan d'épargne retraite collective, PERCO). “This 100% personalised solution is 100% digital and will allow each employee savings client to define the optimal distribution of their investments within their employee savings, according to their projects and appetite for risk,” the asset management firm explains, claiming EUR55bn in assets for its retirement and employee savings unit, Amundi ESR.In a first stage, the tool will allow clients to define their projects and determine their investor profile: each employee defines the nature and horizon of their project (savings, marriage, main residence, retirement, etc.), and determines their investor profile on the basis of their financial knowledge, aversion to risk and savings capacity. In a second stage, users receive personalised offers for custom and optimised allocations. They may then analyse these variosu possible risk/return scenarios. In a third step, users decide whether or not to select: employees have a means to concretise the offer, if desired, with a single click, to receive a report of the operation and confirmation of the new savings allocation. Lastly, users may regularly monitor their personalised savings: at any time, the user may view the evolution of their “personalised” savings on a landing page in their secure area. Regularly, particularly when the financial environment develops, users receive alerts, and can readjust their allocation at any time. If projects or financial situation change, employees may modify their profile or their projects online, and a new allocation offer is immediately provided.