Apollo Global Management names Co-Presidents


Apollo Global Management announced the expansion of its executive leadership team with the elevation of Scott Kleinman and James Zelter to serve as Co-Presidents. In connection with these appointments, the current roles of Leon Black, Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and Founder, Josh Harris, Senior Managing Director and Co-Founder, and Marc Rowan, Senior Managing Director and Co-Founder, will continue with respect to Apollo’s strategic leadership and investment committee decision-making.The appointments of Mr. Kleinman and Mr. Zelter to the newly created positions of Co-President will be effective as of January 1, 2018, and they will report to Mr. Harris.In their new capacities, Mr. Kleinman and Mr. Zelter will have full responsibility for all of Apollo’s revenue-generating and investing businesses. Mr. Kleinman will focus on Apollo’s equity and opportunistic businesses, and Mr. Zelter will focus on Apollo’s credit and yield businesses. They both will continue to serve on the investment committees in their respective areas of focus. Scott Kleinman, 44, is the Lead Partner for Private Equity and a member of Apollo’s Management Committee. Mr. Kleinman joined Apollo in 1996, and in 2009 he was named Lead Partner for Private Equity. Prior to joining Apollo, Mr. Kleinman was a member of the Investment Banking division at Smith Barney Inc. Mr. Kleinman serves on the board of directors of Constellis Holdings, CH2M Hill Companies, Ltd., Hexion Holdings, LLC, Momentive Performance Materials Holdings, Inc., and Vectra Co. In 2014, Mr. Kleinman founded the Kleinman Center for Energy Policy at the University of Pennsylvania. He is a member of the Board of Overseers at the University of Pennsylvania School of Design. Mr. Kleinman received a BA and BS from the University of Pennsylvania and the Wharton School of Business, respectively, graduating magna cum laude, Phi Beta Kappa.James Zelter, 55, is the Managing Director of Apollo’s Credit business, a member of Apollo’s Management Committee, and Chief Executive Officer and director of Apollo Investment Corporation. Prior to joining Apollo in 2006, Mr. Zelter was with Citigroup Inc. and its predecessor companies from 1994 to 2006. From 2003 to 2005, Mr. Zelter was Chief Investment Officer of Citigroup Alternative Investments, and prior to that he was responsible for the firm’s Global High Yield franchise. Prior to joining Citigroup in 1994, Mr. Zelter was a High Yield Trader at Goldman Sachs & Co.Mr. Zelter is a board member of DUMAC, the investment management company that oversees the Duke University Endowment and Duke University Foundation. Mr. Zelter has a degree in Economics from Duke University.