Axa IM-Real Assets announces senior appointments


AXA Investment Managers - Real Assets (“AXA IM - Real Assets”) announces that it has strengthened its global management team with two senior appointments having hired John O’Driscoll as European Head of Transactions, replacing Laurent Jacquemin, who has been promoted to Head of Asia Pacific. Both appointments are expected to be effective by 1 January 2018. As European Head of Transactions, John O’Driscoll, will report directly to AXA IM - Real Assets’ CEO, Isabelle Scemama, and will oversee the sourcing, selection and execution of the acquisitions that AXA IM - Real Assets undertakes each year on behalf of clients. Based in London and working closely alongside the local asset and fund management teams, John will manage AXA IM - Real Assets’ c.30-strong market leading European transactions team which has completed around €15 billion(2) of transactions over the past three years. As part of his role, John will contribute to the investment strategies for both AXA IM - Real Assets and its clients and will be a member of its Investment Committee. John has over 15-years’ experience in international real estate investment banking and investment advisory and joins from global real estate advisory services firm JLL, where he has been CEO of Corporate Finance and Head of Mergers & Acquisitions for the EMEA region since 2014. Prior to JLL, John spent eight years at Deutsche Bank where, having joined as an Associate in 2006, he was promoted through to EMEA Head of Real Estate, Gaming and Lodging M&A. John joined Deutsche after four years in the EMEA Real Estate Investment Banking team at J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. Laurent Jacquemin, is appointed as Head of Asia Pacific and will be based at AXA IM - Real Assets’ newly relocated Asian hub in Tokyo, Japan, reporting directly to Laurent Lavergne, Head of Separate Accounts and responsible for international development in the U.S. and Asia. Laurent Jacquemin will be responsible for all of AXA IM - Real Assets’ operations in the Asia Pacific region including overseeing investment, asset management and capital raising activities from the offices in Japan, South Korea and Australia. Asia Pacific has been identified by AXA IM - Real Assets as a key area for geographical growth and, in his new role, Laurent will help devise the strategy for its continued expansion in the region. Laurent’s promotion also sees him l join AXA IM - Real Assets’ extended Management Board, alongside Steve McCarthy, Head of North America. Laurent has around 18 years of experience in the real estate industry and joined AXA IM - Real Assets in 2001. Prior to his current role as European Head of Transactions, Laurent was respectively Global Head of Corporate Finance and Head of Corporate Finance UK. He started his career at Ernst & Young working both in Paris and Brussels