Franklin Templeton appoints Jed Plafker as Head of Global distribution


Franklin Templeton Investments announced that Jed Plafker has been named executive vice president of Global Advisory Services, effective December 1, 2017. In this role, Plafker will oversee the company’s global distribution efforts, including retail and institutional sales, marketing and product strategy. His previous internationally-focused role will now expand to include U.S. distribution.“For more than 10 years, Jed has led our international distribution group through a period of exceptional growth,” said Jenny Johnson, president and chief operating officer. “Under his leadership, we have broadened the company’s reach and increased our market share internationally. Through fiscal year 2017, under Jed’s guidance, we have seen improving sales flows internationally where retail net flows have been positive for three consecutive quarters. Several countries and regions have seen a rebound in net sales over the past fiscal year.” Plafker has overseen international distribution for the firm since 2006, providing strategic direction on both retail and institutional distribution, and on product and new business development, across international regions. In addition to being a member of the product committee, which oversees product launches globally, Plafker has also headed global marketing, including the global data analytics group.In his new expanded role, Plafker will add responsibility for U.S. distribution and global product strategy, uniting all of the firm’s global distribution functions under his leadership. Plafker will continue to report to Jenny Johnson and to be based at the firm’s headquarters in San Mateo, California.Plafker joined Franklin Templeton as a corporate attorney in 1994 and later served as chief legal counsel - Asia. In 2001, he moved to the distribution side of the business when he took on the role of country head in Hong Kong leading the country’s sales and marketing operations. In 2003, he relocated to Europe to become a managing director of Franklin Templeton’s international retail distribution, with responsibility for overseeing sales and marketing of the company’s products in Africa, the Middle East and parts of Europe. Thereafter, Plafker relocated to Franklin Templeton‘s headquarters in the United States when he took on an expanded role overseeing all international business.