La Financière Responsable forms strategic partnership with Mapfre


A new step has been taken in the development of La Financière Responsable (LFR). The firm, which was taken over in 2010 by Olivier Johanet, a former director of La Française, will this morning announce that it is signing a strategic partnership with the Spanish insurance giant Mapfre. The partnership will involve the entry of LFR into the capital of Mapfre for 25%, while LFR will provide the Mapfre group with proprietary tools and recognised expertise in SRI/ESG management. LFR< which had EUR147m in assets under management as of 31 October, will see its products integrated into the commercial range on the Luxembourg platform of Mapfre, or directly to institutional investors. The capital operation has been carried out through a sale of a 71% stake held by Johanet. Stéphane Prévost, the founder of LFR, retains 14.5%, with the remainder owned by employees. “We were faced with shared knowledge, initially as part of a commercial relationship. But the directors of Mapfree, including Jose Luiz Jimenez, chief investment officer at Mapfre, taned to contact us again to talk about capital. Mapfre has plans to develop its asset management activity outside of Spain, and also has a desire to innovate. They were won over by our ESG approach and this is the first time that they have brought this activity to France,” Johanet explains to NewsManagers. “For our part, this also allows us to resolve a problem with critical size in asset management.” Mapfre created its asset management activity for third parties, Mapfre Asset Management, last year. In total, the insurance group has about EUR60bn in assets under management, but the vast majority is for internal clients. This strategic alliance also allows for new products to be launched, aimed at institutionals and private management seeking “clear, accurate figures” in ESG information. Johanet and Prévost, who have developed the proprietary Integral Value Approach (IVA) together, which consists of taking in all dimensions of the business, taking into account all participants and not only the financial aspects, will remain at the head of the business, and a representative from Mapfre will join the governance board at LFR.