“Inflows have accelerated since the beginning of the year” - PIMCO


NewsManagers: What is the size of the activities of Pimco in France?Bettina Mazzocchi: We do not release data by country, but I can tell you that our assets in France are over EUR10bn. Two thirds of this is made up by institutional clients, and one third by retail clients. On the institutional side, we have a majority of insurers, and on the retail side, it is mostly private banks, funds of funds and family offices. We do not actively cover IFA clients, who still sometimes contact us. NewsManagers: How is your commercial activity developing?Bettina Mazzochi: Historically, the growth of our assets in France has been similar to globally: the peak for our assets came in 2013, before the announcement of tapering by the Fed. Then, with the resignation of Bill Gross, we had a decline in our assets. For the past year, assets have started to rise again, and since the beginning of the year, we have more than USD70bn in incoming net inflows group-wide. There was a rebound one year ago, and inflows have accelerated since the beginning of the year. Third quarter follows this trend. As of the end of June, total assets at Pimco came to USD1.690trn, compared with USD1.467trn as of the end of December 2016. NewsManagers: And for Europe?Bettina Mazzochi: Assets in Europe, including the United Kingdom, total EUR526bn at the conclusion of first half, compared with EUR495bn as of the end of December 2016. What I can tell you is that we have an equal distribution of assets over the continent. Also, the assets we have in Europe have been higher in the past three years, and in France, they have reached all-time highs. As you know, bonds remain omnipresent at Pimco. They represent over 80% of our assets worldwide. That also means that we are present in other assets classes, and that these sums are not negligible. We have USD40bn in assets in alternative, USD25bn in equities, over USD35bn in multi-asset, and nearly USD60bn in real assets. NewsManagers: How do you explain this recent acceleration? … Read the rest of the interview in the French version of NewsManagers