Lyxor lists first gender equality ETF in Europe with Equileap


Lyxor will from today launch the first ETF in Europe focused on corporate gender equality, the Lyxor Global Gender Equality (DR) UCITS ETF. To this end, the affiliate of Société Générale has teamed up with a specialist charity, based in Amsterdam and London, co-founded by Diana van Maasdijk, CEO fo Equileap and former head of philanthropy at ABN Amro. “Our organization aims to accelerate equality between men and women in the workplace,” van Maasdijk explains to NewsManagers. “We think that to achieve it, we can use the world of investment, by offering investors a way to choose organisations which are making more progress in this area.” To judge this progress, the Foundation, with the financial support of donations from private individuals and charities in the United States and Europe, and subsidies from the Netherlands government, analyses reports on more than 3,000 companies in 23 developed countries. It rates those which have a market capitalisation of over USD2bn, and daily trading volumes of over USD5bn, on the basis of 19 criteria. It also publishes a global report annually, by company. “Our team of analysts compiles and evaluates public and private data in partnership with the Department of Sustainable Finance at the University of Maastricht,” van Maasdijk says. The organisation has created several indices based on the theme of gender equality with Solactive, a German index provider, including an international index, a European index, one for the United States, and one for the United States and Canada. For the first time, an associated fund is being released in Europe, with Lyxor. “Thiis is our fourth themed fund with Lyxor. It echoes the United Nations Sustainable Development objectives,” says Clarica Djabbari, deputy head of Lyxor ETF. The ETF tracks the Solactive Equileap Global Gender Equality Net Total Return index (denominated in USD), which is based on the Equileap database. “These themed ETFs do represent only 1% of the ETF market in Europe, but the flows are doubling every year,” explains Djabbari. “Since January, the European market has already seen inflows of EUR1.6bn.” So there are positive outlooks for an ETF with a purpose. The Lyxor Global Gender Equality (DR) UCITS ETF is a Luxembourg Sicav which uses a physical replication method, and is available on Euronext Paris, with a total expense ratio of 0.35%.