Tighter Legg Mason office in Paris seeks a name for itself in bonds


Each cycle has its preferences. After years of promoting US equity funds, the US group Legg Mason is now seeking to make itself better known for its bond expertise in France, as Vincent Passa, head of the Paris office since 2010, reveals to NewsManagers. “Legg Mason got well-known in the late 1990s, when the Banque du Louvre began to sell US equity funds, which truly was a differentiating theme at the time. But that made investors forget that Legg Mason is a big bond firm,” explains Passa. “And we think that in the current cycle, bonds have become undeniable.” It should be said that the US equity market is viewed by some as increasingly risky after years of growth. The French offices has not been spared the trend of outflows from US equity funds, particularly those managed actively in the United States.The efforts of the Paris office have thus for some time been oriented to sales of flexible, alternative and emerging market fixed-income expertise. There is a wide range to choose from the numerous boutiques of Legg Mason. The largest of these is Western Asset (Wamco), one of the largest fixed income managers in the world, with USD435bn in assets under management as of the end of September. The expertise of Western Asset extends to all of the major global bond markets, and the firm has offices in Pasadena, New York, London, Tokyo, Singapore, Hong Kong, Melbourne and Sao Paulo, with expertise in emerging market debt.The US group has also acquired new boutiques in recent years, to diversify its expertise. “The objective of the group is to follow the demand of clients,” says Passa. This, for example, has led to the merger in May 2016 of EnTrustPermal, wich combine the multi-asset alternative expertise of Permal with the distressed debt expertise of EnTrust. Slightly before this, it acquired RARE Infrastructure, to offer listed infrastructure funds. In 2016, Legg Mason also acquired Predician Investments, to allow it to create ETFs. Ten have been created in the United States, and Australia is to follow soon. “For Europe, it will be a little later,” says Passa. “the group will adapt to the success of the activities already launched.”Meanwhile, a new organisation has also been put in place in Spring this year, to optimise sales efforts in continental Europe. “The head of sales for Europe, Justin Eede, has taken on additional responsibility for distribution in the Americas outside the United States. So in Spring the group decided to set up two sub-regions for Europe: one for Southern Europe, which includes France, Italy and Spain, and one for Northern Europe, where Benelux (wich was attached to the French office) joins Switzerland, Germany and Austria.” Thus, Paris now has less than USD900m in assets under management. And the head of the region is the Italian country head, Marco Negri.“It will allow me to concentrate on France better, and even more so since I am sure that very good news are coming from institutional clients. The new organization of distribution activities is now bearing fruit,” he explains. Since the start of the fiscal year at Legg Mason, which begins in April, the Paris office has seen net inflows of USD150m.