For Europe’s asset managers, flows improve but fee revenues are flat


Increased client demand for low-cost investments has offset positive market effects for European asset managers, says Moody’s Investors Service in a new report. The combined assets of European asset managers surveyed by Moody’s grew by 4% to 9 trillion euros in the first half of 2017. Net inflows measured 117 billion euros in the same period, compared with outflows of 7.8 billion euros in the same period a year ago.However, the industry is facing long term challenges. These include the accelerated rotation of assets into low-fee passive products and regulatory developments that are constraining sales and increasing compliance costs. In addition, high asset valuations are also increasing tail risks for the industry."Despite supportive markets during the first half of the year, European asset managers were unable to grow their fee revenues,» says Marina Cremonese, a Vice President and Senior Analyst at Moody’s. «This reinforces our concerns regarding the secular headwinds facing active asset managers."Total advisory fees were largely flat in the first half 2017, rising by just 1% compared to December 2016. The stagnation of advisory fees reflects competitive pressure as well as investor preference for lower margin products.However, the aggregated figure hides broad variation between individual asset managers.Amundi’s advisory fees grew by 8.5% in first half of the year, the second-biggest increase among European fund managers, trailing only Italy’s Azimut, which logged a 16% increase in fees. Amundi’s fees grew as it logged €28.8 billion of inflows over the period from both retail and institutional clients.Moody’s believes that industry consolidation will remain an important theme going forward, prompted by asset managers’ increasing need for scale and operational efficiency as fees charged for actively managed investment products are pressured lower.The report, «Asset Managers -- Europe Update: AUM mix shift offsets positive market effect,» is now available on www.moodys.com. Moody’s subscribers can access this report via the link at the end of this press release. The research is an update to the markets and does not constitute a rating action.