“MiFID 2 is a reform made by big players for big players”


NewsManagers: In February this year, Invest Securities begame Allinvest. Why? Marc-Antoine Guillen: We wanted to create an overarching brand to create a real identity for the group. The name Invest Securities, which was given to our holding company, reflects out brokerage activity, while the company also has two major management and advising units. We are also not ruling out further extending our universe. NewsManagers: How do your activities break down today? Marc-Antoine Guillen: The first unit, Invest Corporate Finance, includes financial engineering consulting activities for public or private companies and their family or financial shareholders. It is directed by a board composed of Jean-Emmanuel Vernay, Marc O’Neill, Bertrand Le Galcher Baron and myself. It includes 25 people and handles operations up to EUR500m in value. We have developed strong expertise ranging from LBO oprerations for investment fund clients such as Eurazeo Pme, Ardian, Edrip and others to merger and acquisition operations between industrials, often international, and as far as P-to-P operations. Our unique point is having a publicly-traded company in the group, which also allows our consulting firm to provide consulting on IPOs, public takeover bids, withdrawals from pubic trading, etc. We have a very wide range of expertise and experience, and we are continuing to extend this unit. We will soon welcome a new team known for its expertise in a promising sector. The second unit, Invest Securities, is a publicly-traded company, led by Jean-Emmanuel Vernay and Anne Bellavoine, which has recently joined us. It has 45 people and does equity intermediation with an emphasis on smidcaps, but not exclusively. It also has a strong sectoral emphasis on research specialised in the real estate, health care, clean tech, services, consumer goods, and transportation sectors. It also does market animations, and has 72 contracts of this type. NewsManagers: How about your asset management unit? Marc-Antoine Guillen: The unit is composed of two asset management firms, Amplegest, which is celebrating 10 years and has 31 people, which is the largest structure, with asset management, private management and family office activities. I am the founder but operational leadership is now exercised by Arnaud de Langautier and Olivier Lazar. It has EUR900m in private management and will soon exceed EUR1bn in assets as of the end of the year. As part of its family office activities, it oversees about EUR700m in assets for 13 families, and has EUR500m in assets under management. Since last year, it has taken a more proactive approach to selling its funds to external parties, and not only to our private clients. New people will be joining soon, and an office was opened in Brussels three years ago. For its 2020 plan, we hope to top EUR1bn in each of the three professions. NewsManagers: Where are you with the integration of Sully Patrimoine Gestion, acquired one year ago? Marc-Antoine Guillen: It is the second-largest company in the unit. Sully Patrimoine Gestion has about EUR250m in assets under management, and does mandated private management. It specialises in only trading in live shares. The group controls 80% of its own capital, and has eight employees. NewsManagers: Might you make other management acquisitions? .... Read the rest of the intervew in the French version of NewsManagers.