British asset managers are dreading what comes after Brexit


Thus far, Brexit seemed to have mostly spared the asset management sector, in contrast to banking and insurance. But things have changed somewhat since the summer due to the release of two opinions published by ESMA, the European Securities and Markets Authority. In late May Esma issued general principles with which national regulators must align themselves for the purpose of regulatory convergence. The European regulator is especially concerned about the creation of “letter-boxes“ in a post-Brexit continental Europe. In the run-up to the UK’s exit from the EU, British companies in all financial sectors will be tempted to set up shell companies while keeping most of their activities in the UK. “ESMA’s opinion aims to harmonise procedures and consistency of approaches in supervision at the European Union level, explains Véronique de Hemmer, head of regulatory affairs at Clifford Chance. The rules are nothing new. It’s just that everyone is paying closer attention with Brexit coming up.“ Controversy In mid-July the European regulator reiterated its message while elaborating on it in a series of three documents by type of asset management. In the document on investment management, one passage triggered controversy. “Delegation to non-EU entities could make oversight and supervision of the delegated functions more difficult…? National competent authorities should therefore give special consideration to such delegation arrangements and be satisfied that their implementation is justified based on objective reasons despite the additional risks which may arise from them“, the opinion said. In the UK this passage was interpreted by some as an attempt to alter the principle of delegation. It happens that this principle is a hallmark of asset management in Europe: about 90 % of assets under management in the EU uses delegation. And while most of these funds are registered in Dublin or Luxembourg, portfolios are managed almost everywhere in the world, including a large portion in London. No wonder, says an ESMA spokesperson, that “the British asset management industry is keeping a close eye on this opinion, which affects the use of delegation“. Even so, he denies that the principle of delegation is being altered: “this sentence merely highlights the possibility of additional challenges in the supervision of delegated roles when they are carried out outside the European Union“, he explains. Beyond the matter of the text’s wording, UK asset managers are currently seeking certainties, even as negotiations drag along between the European Union and the UK. As managing director of ICI Global, a global association representing the interests of regulated funds, Dan Waters hopes that the rules applying to UCITS will continue to guarantee their success. “Investors choose UCITS funds for their solid and flexible regulatory framework, he explains. Rules on the principle of delegation are at the core of this framework. Through delegation rules, global fund platforms offer true economies of scale and access to investors. Obviously, all this must be held onto.“ However, a post-Brexit regulatory status quo is far from a given. “Keep in mind that what currently exists in intra-European delegation and outsourcing cannot last post-Brexit, says Frédérick Lacroix, a partner at Clifford Chance. Conditions surrounding delegation or outsourcing will inevitably be more restrictive, as for any outside country.“ Even at this stage, this does not sound good to UK asset managers.