An expanding private corporate debt market


The EuroPP market will stay small this year. “Volumes are a little lower than expected”, says Frédéric Catelon, Managing Director Global Capital Markets at SG CIB. “An estimated almost €2 billion in deals were signed in the first half of this year.” This would still amount to a slight increase, given that the above figures are just an estimate, due to the heavier proportion of private debt. “There has been a slight upturn in deals this years, driven in part by the refinancing of the first EuroPPs brought out five years ago”, according to Muriel Nahmias, of Redbridge. For example, Lebronze Alloys has just issued a €20 million EuroPP, which drew the same investors as the 2015 issue of an identical sum by Tikehau IM on behalf of the Novo and Zencap funds. “This year’s €20 million private placement contract has been adjusted to reflect changes that have occurred in the company and should help accelerate its development, explains Alice de Jouffroy, administrative and financial head of the group’s holding company. The funds will help fund recurring maintenance and innovation investments, along with acquisitions.” The market is still being squeezed by the low number of deals compared to the money available. More and more insurance companies and asset managers are getting in on the action, with several rounds of fundraising. The Novo fund is said to be preparing its third round of fundraising. “There is a lot of liquidity that cannot find a place to invest, says Cyril Kammoun, head of investment banking at Degroof Petercam in France. We are in regular contact with about 20 EuroPP funds, each one with €200 million or €300 million euros. These are French funds and, increasingly, UK funds, such as BlueBay, and American ones. Private equity firms have also set up their debt funds, including Ardian and HIG White Horse.” A new vehicle A new vehicle has been created that should also bring in investors. “The organisme de financement spécialisé (OFS, or specialised funding entity) is well suited to the institutional investors that it is meant for so they can finance the economy, points out Thibault de Saint Priest, managing director of Acofi. Its use will be more flexible than FCT securitisation funds, as its will be eligible for the benefits accruing under the AIFMD directive, such as the European passport regime and the option of honouring redemption requests. Another advantage is that OFS entities may issue debt securities, which some investors prefer to co-ownership shares.” In reaction to the current environment, investors are taking a look at smaller targets. “We have begun to fund smaller companies. In 2012 we targeted companies with revenues of more than € 1 billion. Today we are looking at companies with as little as €10 million in EBITDA. We remain alert to risk, and the targeted returns will be based on our credit analysis”, explains Benoît Faguer, head of private corporate debt at Aviva Investors France. Investing the raised funds is an initial objective. Enhancing returns is a second objective. “The market has become more diversified”, Muriel Nahmias acknowledges. “In simple terms, alongside long-standing EuroPPs for to large investment grade companies with coupons approximately between 2 % and 2.5 %, investors are also seeking additional returns via funding of mid-sized companies at 2.50 % to 3.50 % and, increasingly, small caps, with coupons between 3.50 % and 4.50 %, sometimes more.” Even midcap funds are beginning to be abundant. Muzinich has focused on private debt over the past five years, particularly SMEs (€5 to €50 million in EBITDA) and is now in the process of boosting its resources. “Alongside four local funds that are in the investment phase, we have just wrapped up our first closing of €180 million in the pan-European fund, with an objective of €400 million to €500 million to invest in European small and mid-sized companies”, says Sandrine Richard, co-head of the pan-European fund and in charge of Muzinich’s private debt in France. The group has a team of 22 specialists in Europe. “All in all, these funds have already raised more than €950 million, with unit investments of between €5 and €20 million, and 27 deals have been done thus far”, claims Anne Petit, head of Muzinich’s office in Paris. Openness The market is opening up to even smaller deals, ranging from €1 to €8 million with around 5 years maturity. “The miniPP market has expanded greatly. We have identified five to seven players that have raised funds on this segment, including Bpifrance”, Cyril Kammoun emphasises. “There are several hundred eligible companies with recurring needs. It’s all a matter of educating their managers and shareholders financially.” Meanwhile, some investors are taking an interest in slightly lower-quality credit profiles. ”The maximum leverage was about 3 when EuroPPs first got started, but investors are willing to look at levels of 3.5 or even 4 or 4.5, says Frédéric Catelon. Investors are no longer afraid of looking at companies under LBOs with corporate type profiles.”Either they set up special funds or they open an ad hoc subfund in an existing fund. Alongside senior debt, mezzanine and unitranche are becoming options. “Our pan-European fund will focus on first-tier senior and unitranche debt”, says Sandrine Richard, with an expected return of between 7 % and 9 %.