JP Morgan AM launches first two European ETFs


“The growth of European ETFs is an inflection point,” Bryon Lake, global head of ETFs at J.P. Morgan Asset Management, said in London on 10 October at a press conference. He might have added that the growth of J.P. Morgan AM in ETFs is an inflection point. The US group, known for its active management, yesterday confirmed that the launch of its first two ETFs in Europe is “imminent.” These are the first in a series in a market segment which J.P. Morgan is now expressing a desire to take its first role. In the United States, the firm already has about 10 ETFs. With this geographical diversification, JP Morgan AM joins other US active management groups, such as Franklin Templeton, who are seeing their market share shrink to competition from the leaders in the profession such as BlackRock and Lyxor in Europe.Two new liquid actively-managed strategies, JPM Equity Long-Short UCITS ETF and JPM Managed Futures UCITS ETF, will be listed on the London Stock Exchange shortly. The two ETFs will then be available on all major European markets. This comes as a sign of the desire on the part of the group to democratize investment in hedge funds, as they offer investors exposure to the investment characteristics of hedge funds. By using alternative bets which extend the concept of beta investment from traditional long-only investment to both long and short.The JPM Equity Long-Short UCITS ETF will seek to provide long/short exposure to factors such as value, quality and momentum in global developed equity markets, in a transparent and liquid vehicle. The other product, JPM Managed Futures UCITS ETF, will aim for systematic exposure to carry and momentum factors in four asset classes: equities, bonds, currencies, and commodities.The two strategies will offer access to potential diversification and to the risk/return ratios of hedge funds in a more liquid format, with more transparency and at a cost that seeks to be competitive. These strategies have been developed by the Quantitative Beta Strategies team, constructed by quantitative analysts and portfolio managers specialised in factorial investing, strategic beta (long-only) and alternative beta (long/short).“This first wave of ETF listings is the first step in our mission to develop our capacity in active ETFs, strategic beta and alternative beta, with the objective of meeting the needs of clients worldwide. We are planning to continue this trend in 2018 with the introduction of more investment capacity at JPM AM in the ETF vehicle,” Lake comments.