Groupama AM posts inflows of over EUR3bn for third parties as of end August


Groupama Asset Management has announced in a statement that it has posted net subscriptions in the first eight months of the year from its activity for third party clients of over EUR3bn, nearly the equivalent of all inflows in 2016. Total assets under management come to EUR101.5bn, 20% of which come from external clients. “This increase is the result of efforts to rationalize and reposition our asset management product range, undertaken as part of our previous strategic plan,” explains Philippe Setbon, CEO of Groupama AM. “Since 2015, we have been diversifying our range for retail distribution in particular. We are now growing fast in this segment, with about EUR1.5bn in inflows since the beginning of the year.” The asset management affiliate of Groupama indictes that in France it has won two “major” requests for proposals, one of them in equity management, and the other in credit management. International activities (excluding Switzerland and Belgium) have contributed EUR1.1bn to net inflows since the beginning of the year. Outside France, Spain and Italy represent the largest markets in terms of inflows. Groupama AM says it is hoping to add investment capacity in the coming years, as part of its new “GAM 2022” plan. “The ambition is to consolidate organic groeth, which is based largely on the dynamism of our inflows – Groupama AM is one of the French asset management firms with the largest inflows in the past two years – and also to project our activity toward new areas of growth. For example, we would like to increase our competence in quantitative analysis, so as to optimize the upstream end of our investment process, at a time when data processing is becoming a major force in generating value. We would also like to extend our asset management range in the direction of new asset classes, such as private equity, where financing is becoming structural,” says Setbon. Lastly, as the asset management industry is a “consumer of highly qualified tools and human resources,” investment will be both human and industrial. “We are planning to attract new talent and continue our digital transformation,” the director adds.