Harvest GI announces three senior hires


Harvest Global Investments (‘Harvest’), the Chinese and Asian markets specialist asset manager, announces three senior appointments as part of an expansion of their Hong Kong Office. Harvest is one of China’s largest fund managers, with USD114 billion AUM and more than 200 investment professionals covering Chinese and Asian markets.The hires will strengthen the Hong Kong-based Chinese and Asian markets specialist and will contribute to Harvest’s ongoing expansion of their international product offering. • Winnie Wong, Fixed Income Portfolio Manager, will be responsible for managing fixed income portfolios run by Harvest Global Investments. She has over 12 years of experience working as an investment analyst and portfolio manager covering Asian companies. She has previously held roles at Royal Bank of Canada, Warburg Pincus, and Credit Suisse. She holds Masters and Bachelor degrees from Cornell University and she is a CFA charter holder.• Kathy Zhang, China Equity Strategist, will be responsible for equity strategy research on both Hong Kong and A-Share stock markets. Prior to joining Harvest, she worked for Credit Suisse, focusing on Chinese industrials. She holds a Bachelor degree from Hong Kong University of Science and Technology.• Kenn An, Head of Product, will oversee product development at Harvest Global Investments. Kenn was previously Head of Product and Marketing at UBS Asset Management in Hong Kong, where he was responsible for cross-border investment products and business development. He has also worked for several investment banks, including Haitong International Securities, Barclays Capital, Société Généraleand Calyon. Kenn holds an MBA and MSC as well as the CAIA and FRM qualifications.Ashley Dale, Chief Business Development Officer and Chief Marketing Officer: “These new hires will bolster Harvest’s international position as a Chinese and Asian markets specialist firm. Winnie, Kathy, and Kenn all bring impressive international experience from some of the world’s leading financial institutions. They also have the added benefit of being able to combine that experience with a deep knowledge of local markets and deploy these talents within a sophisticated investment approach. As Harvest continues to expand its international product offering for offshore investors, the new hires will add to our team’s pedigree and will help our investors to generate excess returns.” As part of this growth in international investment capabilities Harvest has expanded its product range by launching its first UCITS-compliant sub-fund, Harvest China Evolution Equity Fund, earlier this year. The firm was also the first to qualify their funds for the Switzerland-Hong Kong Mutual Recognition of Funds scheme.