AllianzGi absorbs cost of external research


In the image of many European asset management firms, Allianz Global Investors (AllianzGI) yesterday announced that it has decided to cover the costs associated with financial research provided by external providers for its investments funds and client accounts in Europe within the scope of the MiFID II directive from 2018. The decision taken by the asset management firm applies to all investment funds domiciled in Europe, as well as to management mandates managed in Europe. However, funds managed and distributed outside Europe are not concerned by these new measures. “As part of our global framework with an integrated investment platform, founded on the mutualisation of research and investment ideas, we found that the solution was to directly finance the costs of financial analysis from our own resources,” explains Tobias Pross, director for Europe, Middle East and Africa at AllianzGI, in a statement. The decision also follows the spirit of the MiFID II directive, which aims to prevent conflicts of interest in securities trading. The decision is all the more clear as “most of our research is already produced by internal analysts and resources,” Pross adds. “Being able to provide thorough and complete research is an integral part of our added value as an active manager,” he says. “It seems to us perfectly natural, from that point, to directly bear the costs, which are included in the management commissions we charge.” With this decision, AllianzGI joins a long list of European asset management firms that have decided to cover the costs of external research themselves. However, according to Financial News, Carmignac is running against the grain of its European counterparts, and has decided to pass the cost of this financial research to clients when the MiFID II directive comes into force in January 2018. The asset management firm “will not absorb the cost of external research” for its funds in Europe, according to a spokesperson for Carmignac cited by Financial News. Instead, the company will pay for this research using a dedicated research payment account, which will allow it to pass the charges to clients. Carmignac is far from alone, however. Amundi has also ruled out covering the cost of this external research itself, and has decided to pass it on to clients.