JPMorgan Funds – Asia Equity Fund changes name and managers


JPMorgan Funds – Asia Equity Fund will be renamed as JPMorgan Funds - Asia Growth Fund, and its investor profile will be updated from 29 September, JP Morgan AM indicates. In a letter to shareholders the asset management firm explains that it estimates, with the approval of the board of directors, that it is in the interests of shareholders to modify the objective and investment policy for the sub-fund, to make it invested largely in a portfolio concentrated on growth, composed of Asian companies (outside Japan). The sub-fund will target shares in companies which are likely to show higher growth than the market average. Following an internal examination of investment capacities in the Asian region, it has been determined that a modification to the strategy would improve the competitiveness of the sub-fund within this scope, and hence its ability to attract new investments. From September 2017, the sub-fund will be managed by Joanna Kwok and Mark Davids. They will manage the sub-fund as part of the JPMorgan Asia Growth strategy. This will be based on an approach relying on strong convictions, and covering all cap sizes, with bottom-up stock-picking of growth shares. Kwok, executive director, is portfolio manager on the Asia Pacific Dynamic team, which in turn is part of the Emerging Markets and Asia Pacific (EMAP) Equities team based in Hong Kong. She joined J.P. Morgan Asset Management in 2002 as an analyst on the bond team in Hong Kong, and has been in her current role since 2005. Kwok previously worked for three years at PriceWaterhouseCoppers in London, where she was a chartered accountant, and for one year in Hong Kong as senior partner f their Banking & Capital Markets division. She holds a bachelors’ of natural sciences from Downing College, Cambridge. Mark Davids, managing director, is portfolio manager and head of the Asia Pacific Dynamic team. In October 2007, Davids left London for Tokyo, to become head of the Behavioural Finance Investment Desk in Japan. He then moved to Hong Kong in 2009 to extend the process to the Asia-Pacific region. He previously served as senior portfolio manager on the European Equities team at J.P. Moran Asset Management. Davids has been employed since 1997, and previously served as pan-European investment analyst. Before that, he worked at the European Commission. Davids has a bachelors’ degree in German history from the University of Manchester and a master’s degree in international economic policy from the London School of Economics. He holds a CFA license.