Schroders launches a climate change dashboard


Schroders is seeking to raise investor awareness about climate change. The British asset management firm on 28 August announced that it is launching a climate change dashboard, which will work to provide investors with a way to monitor government and industry progress toward achieving a maximal increase in temperature of 2° C, and the transition to a global low carbon emissions economy. The tool defines and provides figures for estimated long-term temperature increase, based on a grid of indicators which include four types of factors: policial change, commercial context, technological progress and energy indicators. “These 12 indicators identified as key vectors of climate change, according to our evaluations, currently exceed the target objective of the international community as set by the Paris Agreement in December 2015, to limit global warming to 2° C,” Schroders observes. “On average, they suggest a temperature rise of more than 4° C, double the target objective.” Efforts to achieve this objective have been rendered more complicated by a decision by Donald Trump to withdraw the United States from the Paris Agreement, the asset management firm adds. The climate change dashboard also shows a strong disparity between the various sectors and indicators. “At a time when global political action is leading us toward a global temperature rise of 3.6° C, current production of oil and gas production are taking us toward a globl rise of 7.8° C, which emphasizes the inherent risks for companies in the energy sector,” Schroders notes. The dashboard is based on 12 indicators: political ambition, public concern, political action, corporate action, financing the war on climate change, electrical vehicles, renewable capacity, carbon recapture and storage, oil and gas investment, production of coal and production of gas and oil. The ESG team at Schroders will update the dashboard on a quarterly basis, to track global progress toward the target objectives of the Paris Agreement on a regular basis. “This dashboard will help investment teams at Schroders to more effectively manage their portfolios, taking into account the risks posed by climate change,” the asset management firm concludes.