Natixis AM handed record AMF sanction


The French financial market authority, the Autorité des marchés financiers (AMF), has hit hard. Its sanctions commission on 26 July sentenced Natixis Asset Management to a record fine of EUR35m over formula funds sold by the company between 2012 and 2015. The sentence followed the recommendation of the AMF college and the reported. The asset management affiliate of Natixis immediately announced that it would appeal the decision to the Conseil d’Etat.The hearing before the sanctions commission was held on 23 June in plenary session. To that hearing, the asset management firm sent its director, Mattieu Duncan, who joined after the deeds in question.133 formula funds designed and managed by Natixis AM were controlled by the AMF. At maturity, these funds offered a total guarantee on the initially invested capital, with a return defined in advance by a mathematical formula. For each one, Natixis AM designed a “cushion” reserve, which was funded by a structuring margin and a part of the commissions paid by shareholders in the event of early redemption of their shares. According to the asset management firm, this practise had been designed mainly to protect investors against regulatory, operational or fiscal risks not covered by the guarantee subscribed to in order to ensure restitution of capital in maturity.The sanctions commission found that there were four shortfalls concerning redemption commissions for some of the funds controlled. These shortfalls concerned the fact that commissions were apparently not used as prescribed in the prospectus, a violation of the requirement to act solely in the interests of shareholders, management fees being exceeded, and information to shareholders.“We regret this wholly unjustified and inappropriate decision. We will appear before the Conseil d’Etat. I also point out that under no circumstances were any of our clients prejudiced in this affair. We always deliver the fund formula and that is what clients want,” Matthieu Duncan, Ceo of Natixis AM, tells NewsManagers.