Natixis AM made its first real blockchain transaction in fund distribution


Natixis Asset Management, an affiliate of Natixis Global Asset Management, has said in a press release that investors have success fully purchased shares in Natixis AM’s funds through the blockchain-powered fund distribution platform for fund managers, FundsDLT. The news comes after the asset manager announced its intention to be the first asset management player in the industry to use the FundsDLT platform by using blockchain technology across several of its business lines.FundsDLT is the result of collaboration between Fundsquare (a subsidiary of the Luxembourg Stock Exchange), InTech (a subsidiary of POST Group) and KPMG Luxembourg. The platform is being developed to enable asset managers to sell funds through a new distribution channel, while significantly reducing administration costs and the time to process transactions for both asset managers and other asset servicers. FundsDLT will streamline a range of fund administration and order-routing tasks by using blockchain to automat e several processes in a secure manner. The model is applicable to a wide range of funds and does not depend on the jurisdiction. The successful execution means that, for the first time in the fund industry, investors are using a blockchain based platform to purchase real funds’ shares with real cash. First, the investors use the FundsDLT mobile app to submit the standard subscription order for the shares. Via the API the order is transmitted to the FundsDLT platform and the information is immediately and simultaneously transmitted using blockchain technology to Natixis AM and the other parties involved in the transaction, each one having its own node on the FundsDLT blockchain. The transfer agent – in this case CACEIS – is the first to act by confirming the transaction and logging it as “approved” or “declined”. Approval triggers the clearing and settlement processes: all of which take place on the Funds DLT platform. This change in the distribution chain marks a real revolution for distribution activities. The cash and payment process was handled using S-money (part of Groupe BPCE). Investors topped up their S-money account with sufficient funds to cover the transaction before completing the order. S-money APIs were a major contributor to this success, as they allowed for the movement of money via state-of-the-art technology. This real transaction has paved the way for a new financial services model.