AG2R La Mondiale creates a realty affiliate


AG2R La Mondiale is rationalising itsinvestment strategy for real estate. Yesterday, at a meeting with the press, the social protection group announced that it is creating a joint realty arm, entitled AGLM Immo, which will unite the real estate investments of all members within the mutualist insurance group company (SGAM), the parent body which federates the insurance activities of the group. La Mondiale, AG2R Réunica Prévoyance and Viasanté Mutuelle, among others, will transfer all of their directly-held real estate assets and SCI shares into the realty firm. At the conclusion of the asset transfer operation, which will proceed over the next three years, the realty arm will control about EUR4.6bn in assets. “The creation marks the strategic importance of real estate as a driver of performance for the investment policy of the group,” says David Simon, a member of the executive board responsible for finance, investment and risk. “This realty firm will not be listed.” In the future, all real estate acquisitions of the group will be made by AGLM Immo. With the creation of the entity, AG2R La Mondiale hopes to ensure the mutualisation and diversification of risks for all SGAM entities. The group hopes to “optimise real estate performance by instituting a single real estate policy and strategy. … This is a strategic reaffirmation of a policy of long-term allocation to real estate in the service of our clients, despite Solvency 2, which creates constraints for this asset class,” says Simon. AG2R is not planning to greatly increase its real estate allocation in the next few years. ”The objective is to maintain our exposure to real estate over the long term,” says Simon. The real estate portfolio at AG2M Immo now includes 230 properties, 89% of them office properties located in Paris and the Paris region. This strategic orientation is not expected to change over the years. “Housing is not our priority,” says Isabelle Clerc, director of real estate investment. “We have 4% residential housing in the portfolio and we are not planning to go beyond that.”