Edmond de Rothschild fined in 1MDB scandal


The financial sector surveillance commission (CSSF) on 22 June announced that it had levelled an administrative sanction of EUR8.99 million against the bank Edmond de Rothschild (Europe). The fine is probably related to the scandal at the Malaysian sovereign fund 1MDB, though the CSSF and Edmond de Rothschild, in separate statements, make no reference to the affair. The bank has refused to make any comment on the subject. The affiliate of the Geneva group, based in Luxembourg, is exercising its rights, recognizes the verdict and will pay the financial penalty, Edmond de Rothschild says in a statement. This concludes a process in which the bank says that it “actively participated.”The CSSF, for its part, has notified Edmond de Rothschild of the conclusion of the administrative procedure. The investigation continued throughout 2016. In its statement, the surveillance body explains that Edmond de Rothschild (Europe) fell short in its obligation to set up a solid internal governance framework to cover compliance policy and respect for professional obligations by banks in combatting money-laundering and terrorism in particular.”The bank implicitly admits the shortfalls, as it affirms in its statement that in the first half of 2016 it took measures to strengthen compliance and control procedures. Additional teams were recruited and a remedy plan put in place. Edmond de Rothschild (Europe) has also strengthened its management, with the arrival of a new CEO, Bernard Coucke, in summer 2016.However, the Swiss market authority also appears to be focusing very closely on this affair. In a position paper sent to the agency AWP, the federal surveillance authority (Autorité fédérale de surveillance des marchés, Finma) said that it was aware of the case and of the CSSF procedure, and that it is in contact with the CSSF. The Swiss market body has opened an extended (enforcement) investigation against Edmond de Rothschild (Suisse) and the holding company Edmond de Rothschild. “The procedure aims to examine whether the bank satisfied its consolidated surveillance obligations to combat money-laundering at its Luxembourg affiliate,” the body explains. The private bank, for its part, says that it will continue to cooperate with Finma and the CSSF, but has no comment on the procedure.In an article published on 22 June, the specialist website finews reports that former CEO Marc Ambroisien is at the heart of the scandal related to the sovereign fund. He is reported to have agreed to execute transfers of funds from the 1MDB sovereign fund to Khadem Al Qubaisi, former head of the Abu Dhabi sovereign fund IPIC. Ambroisien, who is reported to have received an Aston Martin from heads at IPIC for his services, left the Edmond de Rothschild group in August 2015.