AMF calls for greater convergence in European regulatory oversight


Three days after the official start of negotiations over the exit of the United Kingdom from the European Union, the French financial market authority, the Autorité des marchés financiers (AMF) issued a call for greater integration of regulatory oversight in Europe. “In the context of Brexit, we need to maintain momentum, meaning maintain the objective of reducing systemic risk while constructing a real internal market for financial services within a Union soon to be of 27,” Gérard Rameix, president of the AMF, said at a presentation of the 2016 annual report. Rameix adds that it is “high time for the European Union to shift into high speed and strengthen the ability of the European securities markets authority (ESMA) to ensure real convergence in regulatory oversight, which alone can form the basis for this single market.” The head of the AMF regrets that the application of European rules is not uniform in the 27 countries of the European Union or by the various national supervisory bodies. As a result, in a consultation with the European Commission on European agencies, “we are proposing to modify governance and financing for ESMA and to strengthen its powers.”In the governance chapter, the AMF proposes to extend the vote to a qualified majority for all important decisions of the board of directors of ESMA; a change in the procedure to appoint the president, and lastly, that permanent members be added to the board of directors alongside representatives of the national authorities.Concerning financing for reforms at ESMA, the AMF wants to involve the industry more, on the basis of a distribution key determined on the basis of the size of the financial industry in each member state.Lastly, the AMF favours a strengthened role for ESMA in some areas, such as the initial evaluation process and subsequent monitoring of the regulatory frameworks in countries outside the European Union; collection and verification of data sent by financial markets to European supervisory bodies, and direct supervision of data providers under the revised financial instruments directive (MiFID 2); direct supervision of critical benchmarks; and lastly, supervision of clearing houses. “It is important for the European to remain able to independently maintain the security and stability of the European financial system,” says Rameix.Rameix, whose term expires on 1 August this year, took the occasion to review the year 2016. “Activities developed in a contrasting manner in 2016,” the head of the market regulator stated. He regretted “a steep downturn in the contribution of equity markets to financing French businesses.” As a result, only 17 companies held initial offerings on Euronext Paris last year. Capital raised (including initial public offerings and fundraisings) totalled EUR7bn, half the total in 2014.However, Rameix is pleased with a primary bond market he calls “very dynamic.” Last year, gross bond issues by businesses totalled nearly EUR190bn, up by 16% compared with 2015. Meanwhile, French private equity returned to its pre-crisis levels, with nearly EUR15bn in capital raised in 2016. “Contrary to the myths, access for French businesses to financing is at last relatively easy in our country,” says Rameix, while emphasizing that bank financing now represents 60% of corporate financing, while the proportion financed by the markets now accounts for 40%.In enforcement, the AMF did not rest on its laurels in 2016. At the impetus of the legislator, the administrative composition procedure has been extended to all market misconduct and to providers or managers of market infrastructure. Last year, the AMF signed 10 administrative composition agreements for a total of nearly EUR2.5m. Meanwhile, the sanctions commission handed down 16 decisions concerning 41 individuals and entities. “That represents 32 fines totalling EUR9.7m, and nine disciplinary sanctions,” says Rameix.At the conclusion of his five-year term at the head of the AMF, Rameix declared that the budget for the institution needs to be increased as “the tasks we hope to accomplish are many, and the international and technological challenges are increasingly pregnant.” In this environment, “we need a financial market authority that can be strong and has the human and financial resources necessary to accomplish its mission in the public interest,” he said. In 2016, the AMF posted a net loss of EUR1.97m, after a loss of EUR13.57m in 2015.