Roche Brune spun off from Primonial


The Roche-Brune AM company, currently 68% controlled by the Primonial group and 32% controlled by Roche-Brune Patrimoine (the holding company of Bruno Fine, chairman and founder of the asset management firm), is soon expected to undergo a reshuffle of its shareholder structure, a statement has announced. Applying agreements reached with the Primonial group, Roche-Brune Patrimoine is planning to acquire the full stake of Primonial, and to bring in a new strategic partner, Midas Wealth Management, a Luxembourg-based asset management firm. At the conclusion of the operation, 45% of capital in the asset management firm, which has EUR502m in assets under management, will be held by Midas Wealth Management, in parity with Roche-Brune Patrimoine, which on this occasion is increasing its position. The remaining 10% of capital in Roche-Brine AM will be acquired by MONAB, the private holding company of Alain Blanc-Brude, chairman of Midas Wealth Management. All of these operations are subject to approval by the AMF. A statement says that for Midas Wealth Management, the entry of Roche-Brune AM into its capital aims to enrich its product line serving high net worth clients, with the expertise of Roche-Brune AM in equity management, and access to new client segments within and outside of France. Roche-Brune AM, which will remain in Paris, says that “the new partnership signed with Midas Wealth Management comes as part of the same logic of multi-boutiques which it put in place with the Primonial group, while offering new opportunities in the area of sales and reimagined governance.” All management activities serving third parties will be organized around two key strategies: private debt and equities, with global cumulative assets of EUR1.9bn, distributed over three categories of client: high net worth, institutional and retail. “This reorganization of capital reaffirms the permanence of the asset management firm lead by the team of Bruno Fine, chairman of Roche-Brune AM, and Grégoire Laverne, deputy CEO, and continued efforts in research and development on the proprietary M.U.S.T. model developed by the asset management firm since its inception,” the statement concludes.