Towards a clean solution to excessive public debt levels&nbsp;: beware zero interest rate policies and welcome debt monetisation


Public debt default or its gentler name restructuring is indeed seen as a very unpalatable solution and many would prefer an upside exit way brought about by high real growth and higher inflation. However the current economic situation in developed economies does not seem to offer the promise of high real growth because this time demographics are rather weak and productivity growth seems to be subdued for reasons that economists have a hard time agreeing upon. And a higher inflation rate seems hard to come by even if one here hardly speaks about an inflation regime such as the one seen after World War II but rather a mere 4% à la Olivier Blanchard. If nominal growth will remain anemic and states cannot raise taxes and reduce spending much because economic recoveries still seem too weak or political contexts do not allow it the unavoidable conclusion becomes that most developed states will limp about with their solvency situation until the currently abnormally low interest rates normalise or the next recession strikes. At that point, the eventual outcome will be state defaults unless Central banks again push down interest rates across the whole curves by keeping their short term rates low and indulging again into quantitative easing (QE). One could say that after all this is not such a worrying prospect if Central banks will simply sustain state solvency by keeping zero interest rate policies (ZIRP) and doing QE for the undefined future. ZIRP and QE would be the missing instrument in the economic and financial policy toolbox shielding countries from the scares of secular stagnation. TIME TO GET OUT OF ZERO INTEREST RATE POLICIES But keeping interest rates at artificially low levels has considerable and growing inconveniences. On the economic growth front they seriously distort the creative destruction process and therefore slow down the growth potential. Old inefficient economy is granted a longer lease of life while the more efficient and innovative companies and sectors do not flourish as much as they would in a fluid environment. And they encourage excessive leverage. Admittedly in a context of weak credit demand from the private sector in countries where banks are still constrained or the state of balance sheet repair among companies and households is still incomplete, the risk that ZIRP will lead to credit bubbles potentially worse than in the lead up to the great financial crisis seems limited. And still it is already at play in a few countries particularly those where mortgage borrowings are indexed to short term interest rates like in the United Kingdom, Sweden or Australia. On the financial front artificially low interest rates also have major negative effects. Everywhere super low interest rates across the curves have had a strong influence on all asset classes. Equities are generally expensive with a few exceptions like the euro zone and emerging markets but these regions have disappointed for many years on the profit side and they carry substantial political risks. Almost all other asset classes have been heavily impacted by the relentless hunt for yield that zero-interest-rate policies have ignited. It is not just sovereign bond yields that are extraordinarily low, credit spreads are compressed and property and most other illiquid assets are very expensive. Even the artwork investment mania shows how distortions emerge when the price of money is kept artificially low. The combination of very low interest rates and the new regulatory constraints imposed in Europe by Solvency II to insurance companies and defined benefit pension funds (DB) creates very serious vulnerabilities by locking them into sovereign bonds despite abysmal yields. And national prudential schemes do not help either in that sense. The combined effects of supranational and national regulatory measures are visible for example in the plight of DB funds in the UK and the Netherlands. Because asset owners with fragile funding ratios are prevented from taking more risk into their portfolios, they cannot sell poor-yielding bonds and rebalance with higher-yielding equities. These poor return prospects have the unintended consequence of digging pension schemes deeper into their unfunded hole. In effect, Solvency II has become a powerful tool of financial repression subsidizing governments’ debt and providing cheap credit to the private sector. And free money has also encouraged all sorts of short-term strategies, creating added volatility along the way. Still, while the inconveniences of super low interest rates seem very serious and growing it is hard not to agree that Central banks have been the main players stabilizing the financial markets and economies since the onset of the financial crisis and the great recession. Emerging from those grim years they appear, somewhat reluctantly, as saviors of the global economy. Their actions prevented systemic failures by financial institutions and massive sovereign state defaults. But they now face the perils of economies and financial markets addicted to low interest rates. Normalising interest rates must be on the agenda in the very near future because of the growing damages caused by ZIRP but many economies are not ready for being left to their own devices. BUT QUANTITATIVE EASING SHOULD BECOME PERMANENT DEBT MONETISATION Successful QE’s The collapse of Lehman Brothers showed that the repercussions of allowing one major investment bank to fail were far beyond what US government circles imagined. World interbank markets seized instantly and trade financing froze. Financial markets soon fell into a tailspin and the great recession gripped. Faced with such unintended consequences, the US authorities procrastinated for several weeks before launching the $700-billion TARP programme. The Federal Reserve also tried an approach that had been tested in Japan a decade earlier with little success, but which had been studied by Fed chairman Ben Bernanke: quantitative easing. After the end of the tapering process at the end of 2014, the Fed sits atop US Treasury bonds amounting to 20% of the GDP and another 5% or so in mortgage- backed bonds, but QE has proved successful in the United States. Growth is steady if not sparkling; private sector deleveraging went a long way; consumption has been growing healthily and even investment has recovered after a long period in the doldrums while the employment situation is now reminiscent of a booming economy. Public deficits run at some 3% of GDP, which is a rather favourable situation in a historical perspective. The Fed can now play it cool and decide opportunistically how long it wants to roll over maturing bonds. But even if it rolled over all maturing bonds, time would eventually provide a clean exit from QE. If one assumes an average nominal GDP growth of 3.5% over the next 20 years, by 2035 the ratio of treasury bonds and mortgage-backed securities will have halved to a modest 12% of GDP. Another 20 years and these bonds will seem a mere curiosity on the Fed’s balance sheet. In the UK, the situation started in a similar way. The Bank of England’s QE, launched in March 2009, helped push down long-term interest rates and helped growth return, though the economic situation became more fragile as growth came back to rely again on renewed property market exuberance – as well as accompanying indebtedness. Of course after the Brexit vote a considerable period of uncertainty has opened up but in the short run it seems clear that the strong depreciation of the foreign exchange rate of the sterling provided a very welcome support. The Japanese massive debt monetisation Despite initiating the first QE program back in 2001, Japan had seemed a perennial basket case. Stuck in economic doldrums with endlessly growing public debt, QE failed to lift Japan out of deflation. When, at the end of 2012, Prime Minister Shinzo Abe announced a further massive QE program as part of a set of policies designed to help Japan break free from two decades of on-and-off deflation, he was met with considerable market skepticism. Yet, although one cannot declare that self-sustainable growth it back in Japan, ‘Abenomics’ has brought a dramatic change to Japanese state solvency, boosted equities and had a profound effect on industrial prospects thanks to the massive depreciation of the yen which itself has in part been a correction of a previous appreciation resulting from the American QE. But regardless of whether Abenomics works, the question remains: how can Japan ever exit QE? The Bank of Japan (BOJ) has bought enormous amounts of public debt since April 2013 and now holds Japanese government bonds (JGBs) worth close to 60% of GDP. This already represents close to half of the net outstanding debt of the Japanese state – and inflation is still subdued. There is indeed massive and expanding public debt monetization by the BOJ. Given that the nominal growth rate of the Japanese economy will probably remain around 2% annually, time will hardly help erode this debt, but the lack of inflation means that the BOJ can simply sit on its position. At some point in the future it will be openly admitted that these holdings still have not translated into inflation and eventually a conclusion reached that those JGBs do not need to be reimbursed. Thus, de facto long-term debt monetization will become permanent monetization, and all that without inflation flaring up or public trust in the Japanese currency eroding. The Euro zone, too late but not too little Late to take action, the European Central Bank (ECB) only commenced a QE programme in March 2015, but did so with a boldness that surprised the market and pundits. The woes of the great recession and the eurozone crisis have considerably weakened European countries, however. Even with the low interest rates with which peripheral countries have been financing themselves for the last two years, it will not be easy to lower debt-to-GDP ratios. An early rise in interest rates would seriously dent debt sustainability in the Southern countries and when the next recession inevitably strikes, some countries could find themselves with unsustainable debts. But for the time being it seems in the order to congratulate the ECB for doing again amazing things to execute the spirit of its mandate (the essence of it being “the ECB must make sure that it still has a raison d’être and the euro zone survives”), beyond the limitations or contradictions of its wording. Deflation in the euro zone seems averted and life is even coming back to its economy. And here again, despite the large sovereign bond purchases by the ECB and the corresponding ballooning of the eurozone monetary base, inflation remains contained. Today the ECB is still adding to its holdings of eurozone sovereign bonds representing already close to 15 GDP points and it will certainly not be easy to sell these bonds in the foreseeable future. But the context of tamed inflation means that a dose of permanent debt monetization will be a very convenient way of lightening the public debt burdens, even though it was not necessarily envisaged at the onset. Buying and burning the bonds In conclusion the successful QE experiments in the US, the UK, Japan and the euro zone tell us that it was the right medicine in front of the deflationary pressures and the balance sheet recession brought about by the global financial crisis. Unconventional monetary policies succeeded. Now we should resist becoming too quickly too conventional again in the way back towards normality. In other words, the exit from the unconventional monetary policies needs to be very unconventional itself. A certain dose of permanent debt monetisation is the sound conclusion, though at varying degrees: considerable in Japan, very substantial in the euro zone and most probably in the UK as well post Brexit, not necessary in the US. This is the only option to avoid large sovereign debt defaults or restructurings and has not and will not reignite inflation. This does not mean that after these very painful economic recoveries public debt monetisation should become a new paradigm. And it is indeed to be hoped that next time around Central banks (and supervisors) will be much more vigilant in the face of booming economies not exhibiting any sign of inflation than their nonchalance of the mid-2000’s. Tamed goods and services inflation despite fast running monetary aggregates was a misleading situation at a time when monetary exuberance was overflowing into the asset markets. But once all hell had broken loose, Central banks were very right to start thinking outside of the box. And we should still think outside of the box for quite some time to come.