BNP Paribas Investment Partners rebrands as BNP Paribas Asset Management


BNP Paribas Investment Partners announced its rebrand as BNP Paribas Asset Management (BNPP AM), as of 1 June, in order to support its new strategy and a simpler organization. In a press release, the group said it targets annual growth in assets under management of 5% for its strategic growth plan 2020. BNP Paribas Asset Management is enhancing its investment platform with the aim to delivering superior investment performance for its clients, while recognizing the changing industry dynamics, such as the increasing polarization between lower cost passive products and actively managed higher alpha funds. The aim is to deliver sustainable long term performance with a robust risk management and ESG (Environmental, Social and Governance) framework.To do so, BNPP AM will continuously reinforce its proprietary research and build on existing quantitative and qualitative capabilities in both active and passive management, along with its equity and fixed income platforms. The company will leverage its expertise in smart beta strategies, multi-asset solutions and private debt capabilities. The firm is also targeting individual investors with outcome-based retirement savings products, as well as providing offerings such as digital platforms to distributors. Other digital initiatives will include partnering with fintechs in areas such as robo-advice, smart coding and artificial intelligence. The organizational structure, governance, operating model and product range are being substantially simplified through an transformation program. Milestones so far include the creation of the Private Debt and Real Assets Team under the leadership of David Bouchoucha, incorporating a range of investment solutions in private debt instruments financing companies or assets such as infrastructure or real estate. BNPP AM has also launched a project to combine the current Theam, Multi Asset Solutions and CamGestion teams, to be led by Denis Panel, current CEO of Theam.“With significant assets under management, this new group will bring together the best of quantitative and fundamental investment management approaches, to extend market share in a fast-growing segment of the industry”, said the press release. BNPP AM wants to leverage its strength in Belgium, France, Italy and Luxembourg, as well as its presence in emerging markets, while accelerating its development in three key strategic countries: Germany, China and the US.