EFAMA reaffirms support for pan-European individual retirement plan


The European fund and asset management association (EFAMA) has underscored its commitment to the Pan-Eurpoean Personal Pension. The European Commission is expected to propose a legislative framework for the new product by the end of June. “The PEPP can be a solution to the problems which are holding up the correct functioning of the individual retirement market in Euorpe, particularly the high level of cost, the limited selection of products and the lack of portability between member countries. The political scope of the project is immense. PEPP may be one of the most tangible initiatives that the Juncker Commission may take to reconcile the younger genreation of European savings investors to the European project,” says Peter De Proft, CEO of EFAMA, in a statement.The professional association points out that households had EUR7.6trn in bank accounts as of the end of 2016. This sum represents 41% of all domestic assets. This considerable sum is held in liquid short-term assets, whose potential for appreciation is limited. Although the replacement rate for retiring pensioners in the 28 countries of the European Union is expected to fall to 36% by 2060, European citizens will be encourated to save more and sooner in their professional careers, and to reallocate at least a part of their savings to market instruments. The fragmentation of national markets in the area of individual retirement savings plans limits compettion to such an extent that a PEPP product with a European label could allow Europeans to access a low0cost product that could bring them the best returns on their savings.For a pan-European retirement plan project to be successful, it would need to meet three conditions, however, EFAMA notes. The product would need to be highly standardised and would need to be possible to sell in all member countries with a single European passport. The regulatory framework for PEPP would need to allow member countries to introduce special local rules, however, in a limited number of crucial areas in the organisation of pension regimes, such as processing of special tax regimes granted to retirement products, or the definition of retirement age and the characteristics of exit eligibility criteria.The framework defined by the Commission will also need to assign an appropriate level of flexibility for potential PEPP providers, with a way to declare a preference in favour of a range of investment strategies over a life cycle or not, for example.