28% of actively-managed funds in Europe outperformed their benchmarks, according to Lyxor


Only 28% of actively-managed funds in Europe outperformed their traditional benchmark indices, a steep decline compared with 2015, when 47% of active managers studied beat their benchmarks, according to an annual study by Lyxor of the performance of actively-managed funds domiciled in Europe. The study, which for over four years has been based on research by Lyxor ETF, analysis the performance of 3,871 actively-managed funds domiciled in Europe, representing EUR1.3trn in assets under management, against their benchmarks, over a 10-year period.The active managers who managed to beat their benchmarks were the ones who outperformed with their value risk factor allocations (low valuations) to the detriment of low beta, quality and momentum factors, which were sources of performance in 2015. The reduced performance of active managers compared with their traditional benchmark indices in 2016 compared with the previous year is largely due to a market context without major trends, dominated by frequent stylistic turnover from one factor to another. In which factors generally are less salient. The study also emphasizes the importance for investors of having an analytical tool to capture performance in a fine manner, regardless of the market context and the evolution of risk factors, and also confirms the essential nature of generating performance. In the current political environment, which is more influenced by policy than the economy, it was difficult for active managers to generate performance and capture breaks in trends in 2016,” says Marlene Hassine, head of ETF research at Lyxor. She adds that “these political uncertainties are still very present at the beginning of this year, particularly in Europe, and will certainly make the job more difficult for managers in 2017.” The study also reveals the attractiveness of smart beta through a comparison of the performance of actively-managed funds in Europe with smart beta indices constructed on the basis of rules which are not based on market capitalization. In this case, only 13% beat the smart beta index. These conclusions position smart beta as an indispensable support for investor portfolios. In order to help investors optimize their portfolio construction, Lyxor notes that its process has defined a quantitative trend-tracking model which makes it possible to construct dynamic allocation to factors. The Lyxor fund selection process integrates this model into the analysis of factorial weighting for funds, to offer an optimized portfolio.