Asset managers need to understand insurers’ needs better


Asset managers need to understand insurers’ needs better, according to research conducted for Cerulli Associates’ report «European Insurance Industry 2017: Charting a Successful Path in the New Landscape». Managers’ lack of understanding of their needs prevents many insurers from outsourcing and forces them to manage assets internally, reports Cerulli. Managers must improve their knowledge of the insurance sector, allow insurers to see through to underlying holdings, provide data transparency, and give insurers the control they crave. “The European insurance industry is large, with total assets of more than EUR8.7 trillion (USD9.2 trillion), and external asset managers can play a greater role as insurers increase their outsourcing,” says Barbara Wall, Europe managing director at Cerulli. “However, asset managers that want to win insurance business need to dedicate time and resources to the sector. They do not necessarily have to offer dedicated insurance investment teams, but they must demonstrate experience of working with insurers.” Across Europe, insurance firms are at different stages of adjusting to seismic shifts in the way that they operate and invest. Solvency II is creating new opportunities for asset managers keen to work with insurers, which are tied to having a set amount of their general account assets invested in fixed income, while battling with negative interest rates and trying to keep their capital charges as low as possible. Insurers want managers to develop offerings tailored to their needs, such as less capital-intensive products and Solvency II-specific products—and to do so at an affordable rate. Some managers continue to rely on being approached by insurers and winning business through requests for proposals. This usually works with the largest insurers, which know exactly what they want and have the in-house expertise to understand the potential impact on their capital charge of investing in any new asset class. However, small and mid-sized insurers typically need a lot of help figuring out how to invest effectively amid the constraints of today’s environment. “When approaching insurers, investment expertise matters,” notes Justina Deveikyte, associate director at Cerulli and lead author of the report. “Some managers may think that the expense of building a dedicated team is too much for a low-margin business. And Cerulli’s survey of insurers suggests they may not need to do so. However, if they want to continue to have insurance clients in future, they will need to pay the price somewhere,” she adds.Managers should be thinking about cutting fees, investing in their reporting systems, and onboarding one or two senior staff who know how insurance companies operate