Current environment favours management, according to Fund Buyers NGAM survey


In a context marked by significant volatility and low returns, a large majority of fund selection professionals, including discretionary portfolio and fund of fund managers, are preferring active management and alternative asset managers to generate alpha, according to the findings of a survey by Natixis Global Asset Management of fund selection professionals in 28 countries of Europe, the Americas, the Middle East and Asia. The survey also finds that geopolitical events (67%), interest rates (49%) and difficulties on the Chinese market (36%) are the three major sources of volatility identified by professional fund selectors in 2017. In terms of risk management, weak returns remain at the top of the list of concerns (77%). According to professional fund selectors, the increase in volatility on the markets may result in a wider divergence in the performance of equities. Among respondents, 95% declare that to generate alpha, they would prefer active management to passive investments. Active management is also the preferred option to gain exposure to uncorrelated asset classes (74%) and emerging markets (77%), Three quarters (74%) of fund selectors indicate that alternative investments represent a means to diversify risk in their portfolios. More than half (54%) are also turning to alternative investments in their quest for performance. According to Matthew Shafer, executive vice president of international distribution at NGAM, “we are observing real change, marked by the abandonment of the old passive, ‘long-only’ model, in favour of a better allocation mix based on low-volatility, alternative investments, in addition to which come liquid and non-liquid investments.” In terms of allocation, professional selectors say that emerging market securities stand out this year, as 47% of them consider this asset class to be the most promising in thematic equity markets. They are focusing on Asia ex Japan, which may offer the best returns in 2017.