Jean-François Bay (Morningstar) joins La Financière de l’Echiquier


It is official: La Financière de l’Echiquier on 4 May announced the arrival, with effect from 15 May, of Jean-François Bay in the position of director of strategy, development and international. The website Distrib Invest a few weeks ago had reported the probable arrival of the CEO of Morningstar France at La Financière (see Newsmanagers of 7 April). Bay becomes a member of the board of directors, and will report to Didier Le Menestrel, chairman and CEO of the firm. He will work to create a strategic plan to strengthen the presence of La Financière de l’Echiquier serving its network of clients in France and internationally, independent financial advisers, ten of whom will dedicate their efforts to the development of the firm outside France.“In discussions with … Le Ménestrel, it emerged that we have the same vision of the challenges which are presenting themselves in the world of asset management in the coming years: with competition from ETFGs, the difficulty of preserving outperformance over the long term, the movement of liquidity, regulations, the digital transition, and the fact that savings investors will need to pull out of euro funds to go to the markets. There will be a real polarisation in the sector between low-cost players and premium players. Didier said to me: stop doing consulting and come create your strategic vision with us,” Bay tells Newsmanagers. The director had spent over 7 years as head of Morningstar France, and 15 years as head of his own consulting firm, which was acquired by the US agency. “I am happy for work done and good results, but somewhere I had come full circle,” the director explains. Morningstar France had growth of 10% per year in the past five years, and had operating profit margins of over 50%, “which was far from the case seven years ago,” the director adds. Bay has been replaced at Morningstar by two people, attending an official appointment. They are Christophe Tardy, currently head of sales, and Denis Le Berche, director of operational solutions. Bay began his career in sales at OFI AM, targeting institutional and then international investors at Invesco. In 2000, he joined the alternative asset management firm ADI Gestion as sales manager. In 2002, he founded Seeds Finance and Multiratings, where he served as chairman and CEO until its acquisition by Morningstar in 2010. Bay then became CEO of Morningstar France, which now employs 50 people. An honorary founding member of the French association of institutional investors (AF2I), and treasurer and director of the CNCF, Bay is a graduate of the Institut Supérieur du Commerce (ISC) finance option.