Digitalisation may help to improve distribution of funds in Europe


The European fund and asset management association (EFAMA) feels that the European Commission should continue its efforts to strengthen the single investment market. In its response to a consultation by the European Commission for an intermediate review of the Capital Markets Union (CMU), the professional association concludes that the distribution of services through a single pan-European online platform will sustain much interest on the side of asset management firms, but faces many barriers to entry, including differing rules for sale, varying definitions and regulations concerning advising, very diverse pricing structures, and additional requirements for registration imposed by national bodies. EFAMA has thus proposed that the Commission consider creating a “digital passport” in the long term, which would be a single savings solution, which, once approved by a single provider, would allow the client to open accounts or purchase other investment services, including UCITS products, from multiple providers, in various member countries, and to individually manage the digital account in a consolidated way. The digital transition for savings solutions will necessarily be revised so that it is suitable both for products which may be purchased directly and those which require advising. The association also points to the issue of sales and pre-sales of products, two concepts which merit clarification from the European Securities and Markets Authority (ESMA) before new requirements are introduced. Initially, ESMA could generate an overview of various practices in terms of sales, which would make it possible to identify inconsistencies between the various regimes. ESMA could then promote greater cooperation between the various national agencies and develop joint recommendations, which would make it possible to clarify what the steps of sales and pre-sales includes. EFAMA proposes that ESMA and the national bodies create a dedicated website to include all the legal, fiscal and practical information concerning sales regimes, including regulatory costs, regularly updated by the relevant bodies, and a harmonised guide to national regimes applied to UCITS, AIF, ALTIF and other products, which would also be regularly updated, and finally, concerning charges in effect in various countries. ESMA expresses regret at the recent position statement by the Commission, that hedged derivative share classes to eliminate risks other than currency risks such as duration and volatility must be deemed non-compliant. The professional association holds that this represents a step backwards, as it will require fund suppliers to discontinue these product ranges and to reinvest client assets in new UCITS structures, with all the appurtenant costs, despite strong demand on the part of investors. Despite these reservations and numerous proposals, the general tone remains very positive, and EFAMA reiterates its support for efforts on the part of the Commission to improve the single market for retail financial services, with particular mention in favour of creating a pan-European personal retirement product (PEPP) and more sustainable finance in the real economy.