Schroders, Robeco and Aviva Investors ranked best firms for socially responsible investment


Schroder Investment Management, Robeco Group and Aviva Investors are the top-ranking firms in terms of transparency and socially responsible investment practices in Europe, according to an independent study by the British agency ShareAction, covering 40 asset management firms representing assets of EUR21trn. The three asset management firms earn ratings of 82, 81 and 80, respectively, out of 90. They are followed by Amundi (77.5) and Standard Life Investments (76.5).The bottom ranking firms are BBVA Asset Management (10 out of 90), SEB (13), Union Investment (14), KBC Asset Management (14), and Deutsche Asset Management (15).It should be noted that in addition to Amundi, two French asset management firms place in the top ten: Natixis Global Asset Management (72.5) and Axa Investment Managers (71.5). BNP Paribas Investment Partners takes 20th place, while La Banque Postale Asset management places 25th (48.5).Asset management firms have been evaluated firstly on the basis of their transparency, which includes access to information about voting policies with respect to conflicts of interest and publication of costs. A questionnaire sent to all asset management firms allowed them to give a more detailed explanation of how their investmebt process integrates environmental, social and governance criteria which are pertinent to performance. 31 out of the 40 asset management firms (77.5%) completed the questionnaire and were ranked on the basis of their responses. Unsurprisingly, the bottom five in the rankings are firms which did not respond to these questions.The survey also included questions about the measurement of tangible impact of investment decisions at European asset management firms, such as carbon footprint.“Our study reveals a huge gap in terms of performance between the best firms and the worst,” says Catherine Howarth, CEO of ShareAction. This comes despite the fact that all of the companies but one (Santander Asset Management) are signatories of the United Nations Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI). “That places a large responsibility on pension funds and other institutional clients to perform rigorous due diligence on the criteria evaluated in the study, all of which have an impact on the interests of beneficiaries such as retirement savings investors.” Howarth expresses a hope that the study will “stimulate rapid improvement in the performance of those with poor ratings.”