“Our ambition is to gain market share in Europe”


NewsManagers: What do the activities of BMO Global AM In Francerepresent today?Jean-Michel Bongiorno: We have 20 institutional and wholesale clients in the French market, though we primarily target institutional clients in France. These clients are invested in more than 10 different strategies, often custom strategies. BMO GAM has a means to offer a wide range of solutions or custom mandates adapted to the needs of our clients and a wide range of funds in euros. We have a client management team with five people to serve our French clients, who connect up with teams for various regional teams and our boutiques. I am based in Paris and am supported by a part of the team in London to steer sales to French institutionals, and meanwhile also responsible for wholesale clients, between Geneva and London. Andrea Astone is director of wholesale sales, and is assisted by Johanna Pollet as client manager. For the institutional part, I am assisted by Rosemary Pajot for business development, and Laura Gray for management of existing clients as client manager.Newsmanagers: What is the volume of assets under management in Europe?Jean-Michel Bongiorno: As of the end of December 2016, BMO GAM has EUR218bn in assets under management for third parties worldwide, and Europe represents about half of these assets. 45% of European assets come from the United Kingdom, and 55% from Continental Europe. Through the acquisition of F&C Asset Management, we have been able to create a global asset management platform.Newsmanagers: What are your plans for the Paris office?Jean-Michel Bongiorno: We have a very pragmatic, local and European approach. In Paris, we want to leave ourselve the time to set up a new brand and our activities. We have no plans to create a French asset management firm in the short term, however, this option has not been ruled out to meet the expectations of our clients. Today, we have about EUR1bn in assets under management for French clients. The French market represents an attractive challenge for our group, at a time when European asset management is consolidating, and many investors are seeking to diversify their base of managers. Our objective is to bring them new solutions and to create value, particularly in certain niche market segments. Our ambition is to gain market share in Europe and gradually to add to our sales and distribution teams. We have nearly 700 clients in Europe. A significant part of the new clients emerging from this new dynamic will come from new territories such as France.Read the rest of the interview on the French version of http://www.newsmanagers.com