Candriam focuses on companies with EUR2bn to EUR10bn in assets under management


After a solid year in 2016, Candriam Global Investors (Candriam) is focusing seriously on external growth. “Previously, we had not grown externally, since we preferred to concentrate on organic growth,” Naïm Abou-Jaoudé, CEO of Candriam Investors Group and chairman of NYLIM International, says in an interview with NewsManagers. “Today, we feel we have succeeded with organic growth, since we have met our objectives.”Last year Candriam recruited Elias Farhat, who, as head of the strategy, will assist Abou-Jaoudé to identify acquisition opportunities on the market. “We are focusing on companies which manage between EUR2bn and EUR10bn in assets,” Abou-Jaoudé says.The idea is not to undertake an Amundi-Pioneer type operation, but to add to the expertise at Candriam with targeted acquisitions in the multi-boutique spirit close to the heart of the parent company. “Companies will above all need to be complementary in terms of asset classes and/or clients, and will need to have a business culture close to ours,” he says.Among the asset classes which are missing from the product range at Candriam are private equity, infrastructure, loans, real estate, and special themes.Though external growth projects appear to be the fad of the day, no deadline has been set. “There is no urgency for now,” but one may suppose that an operation may take place in the next five years, since the five-year asset objective of EUR150bn includes an external growth operation.Meanwhile, in 2016, Candriam posted net subscriptions of EUR5.5bn, and increased its assets to EUR102bn. That is less than a record EUR12bn in 2015, but “we are in line with our objective of EUR5bn to EUR6bn in net inflows per year,” says Abou-Jaoudé. “In addition, these inflows were in a difficult market context. In Europe, inflows in 2016 excluding passive and money market assets totalled only EUR75bn, compared with EUR300bn in 2015 (Morningstar statistics),” he adds. The director also emphasizes the fact that assets have increased by more than 50% in three years.2017 will also be an important year in the digital field. Candriam has announced the launch of a robo-advisor by the end of the year. The project, launched internally 18 months ago, is mobilizing several people. A client interface only remains to be created. “It is a decision-making assistance tool for distribution platforms and financial advisers,” says Abou-Jaoudé.