Ircantec details its new asset allocation strategy


p { margin-bottom: 0.1in; line-height: 120%; } To have an asset allocation strategy which is compatible with a 2°C scenario for global warming. When in late 2016 it adopted a new asset allocation strategy and divested from shares exposed to carbon, Ircantec, the point-based distribution obligatory public pension system dedicated to unqualified government and public utility employees, states in a statement that it has “concretised its engaged responsible investor policy.” It now plans to continue on this course, which it detailed for IPE last month (see Newsmanagers of 21 February) in 2017, including shareholder engagement. The pension institution, led by the Caisse des dépôts, also states that it has taken into account economic and financial developments, including low interest rates and their impact on future risks, and has decided on a new strategic allocation for its portfolio of EUR9.8bn, based on a more diversified investment universe, which it says will improve the stability of investments. Exposure to government bonds has been reduced from 30% to 10%. Equities compose 40% of the remainining portfolio, while inflation-linked debt accounts for 20%, credit 20%, and real assets 10%. In 2015, Ircantec scaled up its shareholder engagement policy, to take into account climate challenges for businesses as a part of voting criteria. On 29 September, 2016, it also decided to divest from stocks exposed to coal, which are incmopatible with a 2° C scenario. From fourth quarter 2016, EUR46m have been divested, from 18 stocks in Europe and internationally, on the basis of [recise and rigorous exclusionary criteria. Finally, to extend the shareholder engagement already realised, along with demands for an indefinite moratorium on oil and gas activity in the Arctic sea, in conjunction with other institutionals. Ircantec has decided to create a structured investment policy in 2017. Meanwhile, an update to the SRI charter will make it more relevant and better integrate climate challenges in investment.