Neuflize OBC lays off one quarter of personnel


Rumours had been circulating for several weeks, and now they are confirmed. Neuflize OBC will be launching a transformation plan, which will include the elimination of about one quarter of personnel. “Our results are very correct but it is not possible to do nothing,” director Philippe Vaysettes told Newsmanagers at a release of its annual results. Net banking proceeds fell to EUR317m in 2016, and net profits are holding at about EUR51m. In terms of sales activities, assets under management, not counting international advised management, is holding at about EUR46m in a year when inflows were negative to the tune of EUR300m. This development is due to net outflows of EUR900m at ABN Amro, while private banking has net inflows of EUR500m, and external partners brought in an additional EUR100m.These results are not frankly satisfactory compared with the previous year, in which Neuflize OBC earned inflows of over EUR4bn. Net banking proceeds rose, but net profits are down 5%. The problem, for the moment, says Vaysettes, is a deterioration of the cost/income ratio which this year rose to 75.6%, from 73% in 2015. From the point of view of Neuflize OBC, it is not possible to be satisfied with these developments in the current context of low interest rates, with markets very volatile, and at a time when the finance sector, particularly asset management firms, are facing at least two challenges: regulations, including MiFID 2 (which requires that commission kickbacks be discontinued in many cases, and more transparency and traceability in all advising given) and the digital transition.Against this background, Neuflize OBC has decided to lay off a total of 245 employees, about one quarter of staff, and to make investments of slightly over EUR50m, about EUR10m of this in information technologies. Restructuring costs, for which in the short term there is no concrete figure, will also include the creation of about 30 positions. Neuflize OBC will also revise its range of products and services, with the introduction of a multi-channel product range. Front-end fees will be raised for private banking. Flexibility and telecommuting will result in the creation of seven positions for every 10 employees, which will make it possible to optimise work schedules and reduce the size of office premises.Neuflize OBC is also planning to ride the momentum at ABN Amro to develop its product range and to capture an international client base. The transformation plan will run until 2019, with positive impact this year, but much more marked impact in 2018 and 2019. In addition to a reduction in costs, this transformation plan, without modifying the business model for a firm with 350 years of history in a major way, will allow the firm to return to inflows of about EUR600m to EUR700m per year. But these will be targeted inflows, which will go to high added value products likely to earn significant proceeds.