Standard Life and Aberdeen confirm discussions on a potential merger


Further to the recent press speculation, the Boards of Standard Life and Aberdeen confirm that they are in discussions in relation to a possible all-share merger of Standard Life and Aberdeen, announced the two asset managers in a joint statement. «The potential merger represents an excellent opportunity to leverage Standard Life and Aberdeen’s combined strengths to create a world class investment company», added the two groups. This transaction would create a group with £660 of proforma assets under administration.Under the terms of the potential merger, Aberdeen shareholders would own 33.3 per cent and Standard Life shareholders would own 66.7 per cent of the combined Group. Aberdeen shareholders would receive a merger ratio of 0.757 new Standard Life ordinary shares for each Aberdeen ordinary share. «Discussions between the parties remain ongoing regarding the other terms and conditions of the potential merger», said the two groups.Standard Life and Aberdeen expected that the potential merger would «harness Standard Life and Aberdeen’s complementary, market leading investment and savings capabilities which would deliver a compelling and comprehensive product offering for clients covering developed and emerging market equities and fixed income, multi-asset, real estate and alternatives», they said. The transaction would also «establish one of the largest and most sophisticated investment solutions offerings globally, positioning the combined group to meet the evolving needs of clients» and «reinforce both Standard Life and Aberdeen’s long-standing commitment to active management». It would also «create an investment group with strong brands, leading institutional and wholesale distribution franchises, market leading platforms and access to long-standing, strategic partnerships globally», added the two groups. Finally, they expected that the potential merger would «result in material earnings accretion for both sets of shareholders, reflecting the significant synergy potential of a combination».Standard Life Chairman Sir Gerry Grimstone would become Chairman of the Board of the Combined Group, with Aberdeen’s Chairman Simon Troughton becoming Deputy Chairman. Keith Skeoch, CEO of Standard Life and Martin Gilbert, CEO of Aberdeen, would become co-CEOs of the Combined Group. In addition, Bill Rattray of Aberdeen and Rod Paris of Standard Life would become CFO and CIO respectively. It is envisaged that the Board of Directors of the Combined Group would comprise equal numbers of Standard Life and Aberdeen directors.