Investors have “no love for France”


It was a sad Valentine’s Day for France. “No love for France” was one of the findings of the Fund Manager Survey, released by BofA Merrill Lynch on 14 February, which finds that the confidence of investors in French equities has fallen to its lowest levels in nearly two years, and that France is the least liked equity market in Europe. It is underweight a net 24% compared with its neutral position last month. This situation is related to political risks emerging ahead of the French presidential elections. BofAML suggests that this contrasts with the “style cycle” for the country, which would suggest that French equities should be expected to turn in the best market returns under normal market conditions.The period of the survey ran from 3 to 9 February 2017, In total, 210 experts participated, representing assets under management of USD632bn. 38 participants with USD83bn in assets under management responded to the European questions on the survey.Another finding of the survey is that the percentage of asset allocators overweight in European equities is up to a net 23%, from 17% last month, slightly above the long-term average, and at its highest for eight months. From the point of view of valuation, European equities are considered the second-least expensive in all regions of the world, with 24% of allocations estimating that these are undervalued.However, 78% feel that US equities are overvalued.On the macroecnomic level, the survey finds that the percentage of investors who expect a global economic boom, with higher-than-expected growth and inflation, is up to 23% from 1% one year previously.In terms of global allocation, a net 39% of investors are overweight in equities, unchanged since January. Allocation to bond markets is up, with a net 59% underweight, compared with 63% the previous month. In other areas, allocation to emerging market equities are a net 5% overweight, compared with 6% underweight the previous month. Allocation to commodities is improving, with a net 3% overweight, compared with a net 3% underweight the previous month.