“Having new shareholders will allow us to move into the comeback phase”


p { margin-bottom: 0.25cm; line-height: 120%; }a:link { } NewsManagers : At its peak, Convictions AM had over EUR1bn in assets under management, compared with EUR200m at the end of 2016. What happened? Nicolas Duban : In 2003, Philippe Delienne was ahead of his time as a manager, when at La Française he created a flexible fund of funds, oriented to analysis of the monetary policies of central banks over economic cycles. His strategy, which he pursued by founding Convictions AM in 2007 with the assistance of La Française, worked very well until 2011, which allowed Convictions AM to grow quickly. But due to regulatory changes, the Convictions Premium fund then preferred direct management of securities. After the departure of the director of management at the end of 2013, Philippe Delienne decided to return to management based on asset allocation, portfolio construction, and risk management, fundamentals which had been responsible for the success of Convictions AM since its inception. He then found a head for strategy, the development of Convictions AM, and of assuring his succession as head of the business. That was when I joined the firm in July 2014, as CEO, and we have worked to develop a complementary product range, which delivers adapted responses to the new complexity and interconnection of financial markets. Today, we have aded a multi-factoral approached modelled on the management process at Convictions AM, along with the fundamental vision and tactial risk management which have been responsible for its success. NewsManagers : Is the drop in assets what drove you to take on new shareholders? Nicolas Duban : When I joined Convictions AM in 2014 as CEO and largest shareholder, I had a two-year action plan. This was first to grow and adapt the management methodology, modify the organisation of teams and work on the cost base. Today, there are 12 of us, more than half of whom are new, compared with 34 employees before my arrival. To complete the transformation, from the start I had been intending to present this project to new shareholders, which will allow us to move into a comeback phase. NewsManagers : Why did you select a mutualist health insurance company and La Financière de l’Echiquier as new shareholders? …. Read the rest of the interview on the French version: http://www.newsmanagers.com