Finma fines Coutts for 1MDB sovereign fund scandal


The Swiss federal financial market surveillance authority (Finma) has fined the bank Soutts & Co due to “inadequate clarifications of business relationships and transactions made in Switzerland” related to the Malaysian sovereign fund 1MDB (1Malaysia Development Berhad), according to a statement released on 2 February. The regulator has confiscated CHF6.5m of “inappropriately acquired” gains. The financial market watchdog will also consider opening enforcement procedures [implementation of regulation -ed] against employees of the bank, it says.Following an investigation launched in early 2016, Finma noted “severe shortfalls in anti-money laundering, related to business relationships and transactions concluded as part of suspected corrupt business affecting the Malaysian sovereign fund 1MDB.” Coutts has “insufficiently clarified the backgrounds of certain business relationships and transactions which were unusually high-risk and involved unusually high sums,” which “severely” impinge the requirements that blameless activity be conducted by the business. According to Finma, funds paid into Swiss accounts at Coutts related to 1MDB may total USD2.4bn. The regulator emphasizes that Coutts had been implicated for a long time in this affair.Investigators have also revealed that Coutts entered a commercial relationship with a young Malaysian businessman in summer 2009 in Zurich. Though the declarations made at the time of opening the account stated that USD10m of wealth from the family would be paid into the account, the Malaysian fund 1MDB transferred nearly USD700m to the account in autumn 2009. “The explanations for this were contradictory, and were certainly changed a posteriori,” specialists at Finma say. According to them, “the bank did not … clarify the background of this unusual transaction adequately.”Other payments were made into this account subsequently, up to early 20133, totalling USD1.7bn. Coutts has not clarified the use of USD35m at Casinos and for luxury services such as yacht travel and private jets. Despite revelations in the media concerning the 1MDB fund and internal investigations by the bank in both Singapore and Switzerland, “directors did not respond to these indicators and concerns. On the contrary, it was decided to maintain these economically attractive business relationships and to execute the transactions.”As part of the investigation into the laundering of hundreds of millions of euros from the 1MDB sovereign fund. Finma has opened procedures against five other banks in addition to Coutts. In 2016, Finma closed its procedures against BSI and Falcon Private Bank.