Primonial allied affiliates of SocGen to launche digital life insurance range


The rise of fintechs is giving traditional players in wealth management new ideas. Yesterday, the Primonial group unveiled its “LINK by Primonial” service, a fully online digital life insurance sales and subscription service, which will be officially launched on 1 February. For this project, the independent group allied the services of two affiliates of Société Générale. “The idea for this new concept is to create ties as part of a 100% digital relationship,” explains Stéphane Vidal, CEO of Primonial. “The objective is to target French retail clients, mainly young savers and first-time investors who would like to be independent in managing their savings.”The unique feature of the concept is the need for the saver to go through one of 1,800 independent financial advisers (IFA) listed by Primonial, who serves as a “Linker.”The new platform will offer a “Link Vie” life insurance policy, provided by Oradéa Vie, a 100% subsidiary of Sogécap, the life insurance affiliate of Société Générale. “Link Vie is available on the platform from EUR1,000, with a possibility for scheduled payments of EUR100 per month,” says Marc Duval, chairman and CEO of Oradéa Vie. The group has also brouhgt in Lyxor Asset Management, the asset management affiliate of Société Générale. The platform defines investment profiles according to the risk profile of savers. Five profiles are available at this time: one “safety” profile invests 100% in euro funds backed by the general assets of Oradéa Vie, while four Lyxor profiles are composed of more than 50 ETFs. “Lyxor offers savings investors diversified and flexible allocation, adapted to the profile of each client, with 100% ETF allocations,” says Duval. The allocation is determined by allocation software developed by Lyxor AM. “This software, in terms of configuration and investment universe, has been designed exclusively in partnership with Oradéa Vie and Primonial,” says Lionel Paquin, CEO of Lyxor AM.At this time, Vidal is not revealing detailed figures for objectives. However, “we would like to get EUR20m in inflows in the first year,” the Primonial head says.