“We had to show that our ETF platform was solid” - Deutsche AM


Newsmanagers: The end of 2016 was hard for Deutsche Bank, with the threat of a fine in the United States. What impact will that have on ETF activities at Deutsche Asset Management?Houda Ennebati: For some investors, this information contains potential counterparty risks, since they are required to cover it. Since October, we have had to manage questions from them internally. We needed to show learning, release statistics, reassure investors, show them that our ETF platform was solid. Most of all, they were able to see that our exposure to performance swaps with the bank was less than 1% for each of our synthetic replication ETFs, a level well below what regulations authorize us for. Thanks to that, we were finally able to stem outflows from synthetic ETFs.Newsmanagers: What were your overall inflows in 2016?Houda Ennebati: Our product range is 70% composed of equity ETFs. 2016 was a year for bonds, in which we saw significant interest in corporate investment grade euro exposures, largely due to the announcement of repurchases by the ECB. We were unfortunately not fully able to benefit from this trend. The European equity market, for its part, saw intensely volatile periods due to Brexit and the Italian referendum. We had significant outflows from our European equity ETFs, which unfortunately could not be offset by our bond range. Currently, our ETF platform has nearly EUR56bn in assets under management in Europe, and nearly EUR15bn in the United States. It should be remembered that our first ETFs were launched in 2005 by the investment bank of Deutsche Bank. All ETFs were then in synthetic format. Deutsche Bank was the first bank to start to convert its synthetic ETFs into physical ones in 2012, at the time of the transfer of activities to its asset management affiliate, Deutsche Asset Management. More than 60% of our ETFs are now physical replication....Read the full interview on the French version of www.newsmanagers.com