‘Opening Dublin office is a real possibility’, Merian MD says


NewsManagers: How did you build on Old Mutual Global Investors to become Merian Global Investors in October? Warren Tonkinson: We started the rebranding process as soon as it became evident we would go down this route in terms of restructuring the business. We wanted a new brand that relates to our business and the way it is managed rather than having a name you make up from a random place. Our business is quite entrepreneurial, creative and dynamic. Also we do not have a chief investment officer or in-house views. We are touching on many areas of expertise. The idea that came to our minds was that of a polymath combining different skills across many disciplines. One of our senior marketing team peers was attending an art exhibition in Edinburgh where Maria Sibylla Merian’s work was being displayed and the name came up in the list of polymaths we had set. We began to look at Merian as a character and she was a 17th century German pioneering polymath and genius in art and sciences. That fitted strongly with our platform which combines the art and science of investing. How did the transition go with the clients? We have not lost any assets as a result of changing our brand or our structure. We thought it was really important to meet our clients around the world and brief them about the new name and why we had chosen it. We are almost at the end of that process.Clients were keen on learning more about it. Merian is a European name and in that, it reflects that we are not a UK-dominated asset management company. Half of our inflows come from outside the UK, UK and non-UK assets under management are now very balanced. Europe has been a core driver over the last four years in terms of net sales and driving AuM up. Merian was also an adventurer. You are going independent into a new venture at a time asset managers tend to ever more consolidate. You are choosing the opposite way… That is a good observation. Merian was an adventurer indeed. She went down from Amsterdam to Surinam in 1699, she had to sell her own art work to fund her trip given she had not been granted any funding being a woman. Diversity is important for us. As a small example of that, we have more women than men in our executive committee. If that is not unique in asset management, it remains extremely rare. The same way Merian reached new parts of the world, we have as well. We have invested heavily in European distribution in the course of the last three to four years. We have Asian distribution, we broadened our scope in the US offshore market and in Latin America. We won clients for the first time in the Middle East. Merian Global Investors has also expanded its footprint into the institutional space. Will you be a player in the current consolidation at all? We are aware of the need to continue to invest in our investment platform. We are looking at broadening it with certain capabilities. It is part of our focus at the moment. I think M&A activity is difficult in the asset management sector. Ourselves we have just undergone a complex restructuring and rebranding process. We need to go step by step. You have signed a memorandum of understanding with Ping An Asset Management last October, how will that support your ambitions in China? We are still in the very early days of that memorandum. Ping An has been running MGI’s China equity fund since March 2018 because we thought it was best outsourcing it to a local manager rather than running it from London. Ping An is a huge brand in China and across Asia. We are currently exploring opportunities where we can provide them with ideas and products that can be of interest for their clients and on the opposite, if we can introduce them to our client base and work together on further funds beyond the China Equity fund. They have huge knowledge and skills in the region that we hope to tap into. The Chinese asset management industry could become the largest AM in the world at some point. We seek partnerships in China rather than setting up on the ground as this last option can be costly and complex to achieve. Going back to the UK, how will Brexit impact Merian Global Investors? We have a very diversified set of European clients. Fortunately for us, 95% + of our European clients assets dwell in our offshore Dublin fund range so that is not impacted by Brexit. There is no need to create a mirror fund range as we already have a specific range for our European clients. We are currently in talks with the Irish regulator and we have a Brexit plan in place for more than 12 months. We are confident we will be ready at the end of March 2019. The impact will not be as large on our distribution activities and on our business generally speaking as it could be for other UK-based asset managers. We have to prepare for the worst case, a Brexit with no deal. But hopefully, there will be a transition period. (Merian Global Investors (Europe) has been authorised by the Central Bank of Ireland as Ucits management company on 29 November 2018.) Would your Brexit plan include any transfer of employees to Dublin? We have offices in Milan and Zurich. We will be able to maintain our distribution capabilities as they are. Though the possibility of opening an office in Dublin is a real one but it is not a focus for now. How does the fact of having no CIO and no in-house view translate into your portfolios? If you have got top quality investment talents, it would be non-sense to impose upon them either an house view they do not agree with or an investment style they are not comfortable with. We believe it is best giving our investment talents freedom, autonomy and responsibility, desk by desk, to run these assets in the way they see fit and generate alpha. We have a quarterly investment committee and an independent risk management unit. It is the right strategy for us, our client base also appreciates that we challenge our views internally. Which markets in Europe do you see as most prominent for MGI? Our client base is quite diversified across Europe. We have been successful in Spain and we have built strong relationships with local distributors there. We think of adding sales capabilities in Spain shortly, same in Portugal. Similarly, we opened an office in Italy in Milan last year. We have appointed Michele Colavito as sales managers in Italy. We cover the DACH region from Zurich where we have an office. We fly out to the Nordics to market our funds. France is a challenging market. We have an experienced sales manager since three or four years. We held an event in Paris at the end of November to present the rebranding as well as a few portfolio managers. The industry is moving towards ESG criteria and responsible investment. What are MGI’s plans in this space? The area of ESG is fascinating but the industry still tries to figure out what it means. We are in the very early stages of looking at this space at MGI. We conduct research at the moment and have added headcounts in the course of the last 12 to 18 months in specific units but also in the way to embed ESG in our risk process. We are considering adding more resources and buying adequate data to be able to run ESG mandates and portfolios. We are discussing with a few clients around this. We have not moved yet to launch a specific ESG fund but I expect us to do so in the course of the coming months or years. Demand will only grow in that space hence we have to put in place resources to meet that demand.