Investors deserting most asset classes on massive scale


“It’s hard to be long, but it is terrifying to be short,” comments one investor cited by analysts at Bank of America Merrill Lynch Global. From their perspective, the comment nicely sums up the evolution of the markets in the week to 12 December. Once again last week, investors reduced their exposure to most asset classes – but this time, they did so on a much larger scale than in previous weeks. Buy signals may not be far off, but until then, investors still have no answers to their existential questions, not least: “if I don’t invest in equities, where will I invest?” Equity funds have seen record divestments of USD39bn, with net inflows of USD14bn to ETFs, but net outflows of USD53bn from mutual funds, according to the weekly study from BofA Merrill Lynch Global Research. Analysts at the US bank describe a climate of “surrender” in equities. The same can be said of bond funds, where the week ended with redemptions of USD13.1bn, the eighth-largest outflows ever recorded. US equity funds have seen divestments of USD27.7bn, the second-largest movement ever observed. It must be said that investors have a few reasons for their dark outlook: commercial tensions that are threatening to run out of control at any time, although talks between China and the US do not appear desperate; concerns related to tightening US monetary policy, even though growth in profits is becoming more modest. Investors are also continuing to reduce their exposure to equity funds in Europe, and equity funds in the region show redemptions of USD4.5bn. As Brexit looms, funds dedicated to British equities have seen net redemptions of about USD10bn since the start of the year. Emerging market equity funds remain in positive territory, but with net inflows of only USD0.2bn. However, investors have bet USD16.7bn on emerging market equities in the past two months. Japanese equity funds, for their part, have attracted USD2.3bn. Bond funds have also seen outflows in nearly all categories. Investment grade (IG) bond funds have posted record net outflows of USD8.4bn. In line with previous weeks, investors have withdrawn USD3.2bn from high yield funds. Since the start of the year, IG and high yield funds show net ouflows of USD63bn. Lastly, emerging market bond funds show a tenth consecutive week of divestments, totalling USD0.9bn.