Paris industry stands against PRIIPs regulations


The Paris asset management industry is calling for a postponement of the extension of PRIIPs regulations to OPCVM vehicles, because the regulations have not been fully revised in all critical areas. “This regulation has the legitimate aim of better informing savings investors about their savings products, but since its partial implementation in 2018, it has found significant shortfalls, which work against informing clients well,” a statement says. The current OPCVM DICI document, which presents the key aspects of the product, will from 1 January 2020 be replaced by a new document, the PRIIPs KID, also used for certain insurance and banking products. “Professionals regret the inaction of the European Commission in this area, at a time when consumer and industry associations have reported fundamental problems presented by the PRIIPs document, repeatedly and in detail,” a joint statement by the AFG, AF2i, Anacofi, CNCIF, CNCGP and France Invest says. German asset management professionals (BVI) yesterday issued a similar statement (see separate article).“The PRIIPs information document, as used today, contains information which is extremely complicated for our clients to understand, requiring a high level of financial knowledge. The sophistication of the new methodologies prevents information being provided to clients which is clear, accurate, and not misleading,” a statement says. These points have been brought to the attention of the European Commission on several occasions. “After our repeated comments, and now aware of certain fault, the European financial authorities have announced a limited, urgent revision of the PRIIPs, which does not take into account the time necessary for full consideration to improve the text. Within this tight time frame, taking legislative procedures into account, actors would have only one or two months at the end of 2019 to come into compliance with the new PRIIPs standards, and to license thousands of affected products,” the statement explains.As a result, clients may not receive a key information document by January 2020, or worse, they may receive inaccurate documents. Paradoxically, the European authorities plan to simultaneously discontinue the most relevant document, the OPCVM DICI. This situation creates a risk of considerable disruption to the asset management industry, which would impact managers, distributors, investors, and savers. “We emphasize that we support the principle of the PRIIPs information document, which is intended to provide clients with consistent and comparable information about all savings products, and we do not want it to disappear. But we are today alerting the European authorities about two severe problems, namely, poor management of the timetable and the provision of inaccurate, unclear and misleading information which may discredit this European initiative,” the statement says.The attitude of the European Commission in this instance is “incomprehensible and regrettable,” although several concrete solutions which would be easy to implement have been proposed to avoid a worsening situation for consumers, the industry, and national regulators, the statement continues. “Ultimately, the wise decision we solemnly call on European regulators to take would be to postpone the extension of the PRIIPs KID until its faults can be corrected. Meanwhile, the OPCVM DICI document, which is satisfactory, would remain applicable.”