EFAMA forum: regulator concerned about ETF trading mechanism


@page { size: 8.27in 11.69in; margin: 0.79in }p { margin-bottom: 0.1in; line-height: 115%; background: transparent }IOSCOwill publish the results of its work on ETFs by Spring. At anappearance at the Efama Forum, held by the European fund associationin Brussels, Robert Taylor, chairman of the asset managementcommittee at the international regulator for securities commissions,offered a glimpse of the issues that are worrying the members of thegroup known as C5. “Basically, the concerns are not about ETFs ingeneral, but about the trading mechanism. The question is whether thetrading mechanism is solid enough to hold up to periods of highstress on the markets,” he says. “Will it work like we think itwill when it needs to function, and will investors get what theyexpect?”Oneof the major questions is about whether ETFs need to be treated likeshares on stock markets or as funds. “If it’s a security, and themarkets turn sour, investors will be prepared to accept the pricethey get on the market to liquidate their investments. But weregulate ETFs as UCITS funds, and there are underlying assets,”says Taylor. “In this setting, what happens if an ETF is suspended,but continues to be listed on a stock market?” he asks. “Theseare very hypothetical questions, but we are asking them to ensurethat the oils on the products will be well-oiled,” Taylor explains.He estimates that ETF sector issuers do not expect investors to comeafter them if they lose money. Taylor also raises questions about the“cosy” relationship that ETF issuers plan to maintain with“authorised participants,” which, he says, is not mutual.Inthe passive management sector, Taylor says that IOSCO will soon bestudying indices. “There are concerns about the rise of indices.The question is whether the sector is adequately supervised.”Nextweek, IOSCO will also release a consultation report on leverage. Theobjective is to identify the amount of leverage in the system, andthe places where risk for the asset management sector is located.