Carmignac Gestion under investigation for tax fraud


According to reports in Le Monde, Carmignac Gestion is under investigation by the French financial prosecutor (Parquet national financier, PNF) as part of a case which has been open for 16 months, for “tax fraud” and “fiscal money laundering,” following a complaint from the tax administration. When approached by Le Monde, the PNF did not wish to comment. The PNF investigation primarily concerns the type of remuneration for certain members of management, via financial structures that involve Luxembourg, where the company has an affiliate. The French tax authorities contest the choice of this business to pay salary in the form of dividends, in a country with advantageous tax policies, rather than as salary, in order to reduce tax burden. This practice is widespread at asset management companies, which tend to pay their senior management in the form of free equities, not only for tax reasons, but also to give them an interest in the performance of the business, the newspaper writes.The newspaper notes that a contradictory debate has arisen between the French and Luxembourg tax administrations concerning this financial engineering and its implications, with sources saying the French tax authorities disagree with the analysis of the Luxembourg tax authorities. A lawyer for Carmignac Gestion, unwilling to state the amount sought, does say that it is “a marginal percentage of tax paid by the business,” and adds that “the interests of clients are not affected in any way.” This lawyer for Carmignac states that all investigations opened for tax fraud are automatically also opened for money-laundering.To date, 12 hearings have already been held with managers or former managers at the asset management firm, the newspaper adds, but no charges have been brought, and no hearings with directors or senior management at the Carmignac group have been held. The subject is considered sensitive, due to the size of the company within the European asset management industry, and the potential financial consequences.When contacted by NewsManagers, the Carmignac asset management firm says that it “absolutely contests the recovery and its classification as penal, and has filed a counter-suit, and is also paying the amount sought in order to prevent interest charges. The points raised to support the complaint point to a technical and complex fiscal debate concerning the qualification of intra-group dividends, with the questions related to the tax regime for the parent-affiliate relationship. It is important to point out that this debate deals with facts which are in the in the past, and that the risk is now alleviated. At no time were the interests of our clients or our partners concerned: the dispute with the tax administration concerns only the Company, and none of the Funds in any way.”