Mirabaud passes torch to a new generation of managing partners


The Mirabaud group on 6 November announced that it has appointed Nicolas Mirabaud and Michael Palma as managing partners, with effect from 1 January, 2019. Both are currently limited partners and members of the executive board at Mirabaud & Cie. Mirabaud and Palma join the four current managing partners at the group: Yves Mirabaud, Antonio Palma, Lionel Aeschliimann, and Camille Vial.Mirabaud, 44, represents the seventh generation of the founding family of the group. He joined Mirabaud in 1999 as a fund analyst, and in 2001 joined the wealth management department. In 2015, he became a limited partner, and since 2016, he has been head of client relationships in the wealth management unit for the group. He is also a member of the executive board at Banque Mirabaud & Cie.Michael Palma, 36, is the son of Antonio Palma, managing partner at Mirabaud. After serving in a variety of positions at Swiss banks, he joined Mirabaud in 2010. Since 2016, he has been chief operating officer for the group, and a member of the executive board. In 2017, he was appointed as a limited partner.The Swiss group has also appointed Camille Vial, managing partner, to the chair of the executive board at the private bank Mirabaud & Cie, in which position she will success the elder Palma as of 1 July, 2019, Vial also represents the seventh generation of the founding family of the group. She has been a managing partner since January 2012, and is a member of the executive board at the group. Vial, 41, is chair of the investment committee at the group and the corporate social responsibility (RSE) committee. She began her career at Mirabaud in 2001.Thiago Frazao, head for the Latin American market fot the wealth management unit, has been appointed as a limited partner with effect from 1 January 2019. He joins Etienne d’Arenberg, limited partner and head of wealth management for the British market. Frazao, 42, joined Mirabaud in 2011. He began his career in the field of banking and finance in 1999, and has served in a variety of roles at international companies.