Retirement: A source of worry for many Europeans


The Swiss are probably the only ones not to be too worried about theirfinancial situation. According to a survey commissioned by the SwissLife group, financial confidence is a rarity in many European countries.The results of the survey reveal a low level of financial confidence:overall, only 46% of respondents say they are not worried about theircurrent financial situation. The differences between countries areconsiderable: 65% of Swiss respondents say they are not worried abouttheir financial situation, and only 27% feel financially stressed.However, financial confidence is much lower in Austria (48%), Germany(44%) and the United Kingdom (41%); in France, it is only 32%.Meanwhile, 53% of French respondents feel stressed by their financialsituations. When asked about the reasons for the stress, 42% of respondents say they are afraid of not having enough money to retire. This concern is also widely shared by the younger generation. Overall, 32% of respondents have limited confidence in the state retirement planning system. Health condition only takes third place among the reasons cited (30%).Three quarters of respondents feel they need to have adequate financial means to retire themselves, with the Swiss representing the highest percentage, with 88% (United Kingdom: 78%; France, 71%, Germany: 70%; Austria: 69%.) 44% of respondents feel that this is the responsibility of the state. When asked about their own planning for retirement, only 48% of respondents feel that the measures taken so far to plan for retirement are sufficient to meet financial needs at retirement. To maintain a level of quality of life after retirement, all generations say they are ready to adapt their current way of life and to take more actions to plan. The most commonly-cited measures are: saving more (52%), retiring later (40%), and investing savings better (36%).“People feel that having confidence in their financial resources is a basic condition for living with free choices. The findings of the study show that they are concerned about the financial resources they will have when they retire, and that their level of confidence in the state retirement system is limited. Respondents estimate that it is their duty to save more for their retirement,” says Patrick Frost, CEO of the Swiss Life group, in a statement.(*)The LINK institute conducted the study of financial confidence on behalf of the Swiss Life group between 5 and 13 April, 2018. Overa,, 4157 people aged between 18 and 79, residing in Switzerland (838), Germany (830), France (830), Austria (829) and the United Kingdom (830) were surveyed online on the subject. For each country, the group of respondents included equal proportions of respondents from the following four generations: generation Y (aged 18 to 35), generation X (aged 36 to 50), baby boomers (51 to 65), and veterans (66 to 79). The study is representative.