Edram launches services for institutional managers


BlackRock and Amundi are inspiring imitators. Following the example of the two asset management giants, who have developed services and solutions aimed at asset managers, Edmond de Rothschild Asset Management (Edram) is launching a range of services dedicated to institutional managers. “We are following the model of BlackRock Solutions and Amundi Services, which are aimed at very large asset managers,” Serge Wayland, CEO of Edmond de Rothschild Asset Management, tells NewsManagers. “Our product range, however, is aimed at boutiques. But we are in the same niche and with the same spirit: it’s a question of mutualising developments to serve the needs of asset management for third party managers.”The Extended Outsourcing Services (EOS), a new range of services, is based on a range of portfolio management and distribution tools originally developed for the internal needs of the group. Edram is no novice in this area, as since 1988 it has been offering third-party managers its Institutional and Fund Services activities, which cover the activities of hedge fund and mutual fund asset management firms, and back-office services (fund administration, depository banking). “The Extended Outsourcing Services (EOS) are a complement to our Insitutional and Fund Services, which exclusively target smaller institutional managers,” says Weyland. “This new service is based on an infrastructure which we have developed internally for the needs of our asset management activities.”EOS, which targets fund managers and institutional mandates with EUR1bn to EUR10bn in assets under management, is centred on two product ranges: EOS Portfolio Management, on the one hand, and on the other hand, EOS Distribution Management. “EOS Portfolio Management is based on our own management platform, based on the Dimension solution from SimCorp, which has been under development since 2009,” says Weyland. “We think this platform has reached a level of maturity that now represents a differentiating tool for third-party managers, especially boutiques and conviction managers, for all asset classes.” EOS Portfolio Management represents a complete front-to-back solution, integrating middle office and data management services. This can be used for pre-trade compliance controls, liability-driven management, and management of currency hedging, among other uses.EOS Portfolio Management, which has recently gone on sale to existing clients, has already been turning heads, as “we already have three clients on our platform,” Weyland notes, adding that the firm “is now entering a wider sales phase for our various professions.” Edram is planning to continue to invest in the platform, to add new functionality. “Eventually, we are planning to integrate ESG abilities,” says Weyland. “We are working to automate ESG screening for our portfolios with the SimCorp Dimension solution.”The EOS Distribution Management product range, based on the Dynamics solution from Microsoft, is an exhaustive CRM tool. “This is a CRM tool which we have developed for the needs of the fund distribution team at Edmond de Rothschild Asset Management,” says Weyland. “However, we have done some extensive work to adapt the tool to meet the particular commercial and fund sales management needs of asset managers.” Using this tool, sales teams can monitor all contact with distributors and all subscription/redemption operations by distributors, as well as marking of orders and management of commissions, among other functions.The EOS product range targets all major core markets for the group in Europe, including the United Kingdom, Switzerland, and France, as well as Germany and Austria. “In these markets, smaller managers have no real alternatives for outsourcing,” says Weyland. “Either they choose standard products which don’t cover all their needs, or they have to invest to develop an internal platform, which is very time-consuming and generates very high costs.”The launch of the EOS product range can also be expected to contribute to the growth of the firm, which is driving major commercial ambitions. “Our institutional and fund services business for third-party managers represents about EUR20bn, and we want to double these assets by 2022,” says Weyland. “This new EOS offer will help us achieve that objective.”