“Amazon might massively ‘disrupt’ asset management”


NewsManagers: What is your view of the asset management sector in Europe? Luc Baqué: 2017 was a record year, especially for profits. Demand for high-margin products in the retail segment, and the good performance of the markets, offset rising margins, which are increasingly high in the institutional universe. Passive management has continued to be a rising force, with hard-fought competition on price and the rapid growth of smart beta. There has also been increasing interest in alternative asset classes, private equity, real estate, infrastructure. So asset management is doing well, or even very well, even in the United Kingdom, where we were worried about the impact of Brexit. Our London office is also growing fast. NewsManagers: Will the consolidation movement observed in the past few years continue? Luc Baqué: There are deals, and even big deals like Aberdeen and Standard Life, which we are involved in. We also assisted Amundi with the Pioneer operation. The integration part went very well, things are on time for the announced timetable, and there will be synergies. There are also some technical issues, but well below what might normally be expected. From our point of view, Amundi has shown that it is able to develop its IT platform to process Pioneer management. There was a double challenge: achieve synergies, and show that the new Amundi Services platform is able to effectively integrate the new management and thus assume a place in the subcontractor industry, offering integrated solutions. NewsManagers: But you see this consolidation movement continuing? Luc Baqué: Yes, to the extent that asset management is clearly an investment universe which is of interest to private equity. Beyond that, movements may still take place within the sector. Multi-boutique players like Bank of New York Mellon or Natixis IM will continue to buy up boutiques, following their model: the boutique concentrates on excellence of management and benefits from support infrastructure, sales from the group, assisting them. The mergers and acquisitions activity in 2018 will be in line with those of previous years, with prices rising, and an average ratio of 10 times EBITDA, up from eight times in 2014. In other words, asset managers are getting more expensive. NewsManagers: What are the major themes at the moment? Luc Baqué: There’s a very promising theme from our point of view called “alternative data.” What’s that? We’re talking about data which is not traditional financial data. Take the example of satellite images. You have hundreds of satellites taking pictures of the Earth in real time. That means, for example, that you can photograph all the parking lots of a major distributor in real time, to determine the number of cars with a few alternative intelligence algorithms and to predict the earnings at the retailer in question. p { margin-bottom: 0.1in; line-height: 115%; background: transparent none repeat scroll 0% 0%; }