Insurance companies dream of unleashing their equity portfolios


The European Commission feels it’s urgent to wait. For the French Treasury, French insurance companies, and the European Parliament, it should come down to a matter of a few weeks. What is at stake in this lobbying battle? The revision of the Solvency 2 directive , which has applied to insurance companies since 2016. The entire directive will be thoroughly revised beginning in 2020, but the Commission is set to propose a new draft of the directive’s delegated acts. Proponents of a complete overhaul feel this is an opportunity to free up insurance companies’ equity investment capacities as early as next year and to meet the EU’s Capital Market Union ambitions. For its critics, Solvency 2’s original sin was that it failed to sufficiently reflect equities’ long holding periods. In calculating insurance companies’ capital requirements, the text applies a standard shock of 39 % to their equity portfolio. Strategic participations or specific schemes with a duration of more than 12 years, such as occupational pension portfolios, enjoy more favourable treatment, at 22 %. When passing from the former Solvency 1 world to the new Solvency 2 one, French insurance companies reduced their equity investments by an estimated 50 billion euros, according to the French Treasury. But this is indeed a pan-European issue, so much so that a Franco-Dutch proposal is officially circulating in Brussels to have the revised delegated acts better reflect these institutions’ investment horizons. “ We have to stop reasoning as if insurance companies invested on a holding-by-holding basis and take their investment strategy more into account and how well that strategy matches up with liabilities. Insurance companies are able to prove long-term equity investment strategies that are eligible for the 22 % calibration, similar to a strategic participation and not 39 % ”, says Christine Tarral, deputy director for financial and prudential affairs at the French Insurance Federation (FFA). The FFA has joined with its German and Italian peers on this issue. Investment strategy The very notion of a strategic participation is iffy. “ The concept is to restrictive, with a threshold of 20 % of the equity capital of a company and poorly defined criteria in the Level-2 measures. First of all, it would be a good idea to lower the equity holding threshold and revise the way in which insurance companies must prove its strategic value to the issuer ”, Tarral says. Another bone of contention is the calculation of the risk margin, which, in simplified terms is the equity capital that a third party would demand of an insurance company if the insurance company were to transfer its insurance portfolios to it. Such a mechanism would immobilise about 200 billion euros in capital within the sector in Europe, according to the FFA. The FFA has asked that the cost of capital used for calculating the risk margin be revised to free up resources, one portion of which could be shifted into equities. But when consulted, the European insurance supervisor, EIOPA, said it opposed this option, and the issue is less of a priority than the two previous ones in the main member-countries. In mid-September, the chairman of the European Parliament’s Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, Roberto Gualtieri, also wrote to the committee’s vice-chairman, Valdis Dombrovskis. “ This review should inclue a revision of measures on equity shock in 2018 for long-term equity investments ”, Gualtieri said, echoing the demands of the industry. While the commission deep down appears willing to amend Solvency 2 in a direction that is more favourable to equities, as it did for infrastructures, the issue now is to know within which deadline. In commissioning a report from Deloitte on the prudential and accounting hurdles to investing in equities, a report that is due out soon, the Commission seems to be taking its time and passing the buck to the next Commission membership, in 2020. “ We know how slow the European decision-making process can be ”, a French official said. “ If talks are pushed back to 2020, the new rules would not be applicable in practice for four or five years. This would be a missed opportunity .”