Meeschaert develops governance and organisation


@page { size: 8.27in 11.69in; margin: 0.79in }p { margin-bottom: 0.1in; line-height: 115%; background: transparent }Thegovernance of the Meeschaert group is developing, with theappointment of two new members to the board at FinancièreMeeschaert: Nathalie Cuvelier, as director of communications andcorporate social responsibility and Arielle Benavides, who joined thefamily business this summer as director for organisation and humanresources.Benavides is responsible for organisation, legal affairs, and human resources,and is a member of the board of directors at Financière Meeschaert.Benavides has for over 25 years been responsible for development oforganisations, and responsible for directing human resources at topinternational groups. She was responsible for human resources atGoldman Sachs in France from 1994 until 2000, and then at JPMorganChase for six years, before becoming head of human resources forEurope at Lazard until 2015. Benavides made a strong contribution tothe deployment of human resources strategies and the transformationof organisations in the financial industry. She then put herexpertise at the service of boards of directors, by founding her ownconsulting firm. Benavides has a degree from the Université Paris IXDauphine, and since 2003 has taught as part of the Master II instrategic management of human resources.Cuvelieris responsible for communications and corporate repsonsibility. Shealso oversees marketing for the private equity unit, MeeschaertCapital Partners. Cuverlier joined the family business in 2004 asdirector of group marketing. She had previously directed marketingand communications at Edmond de Rothschild Asset Management andInvesco France. Cuvelier began her career as head of marketing andcommunication at Kompass France, and previously at the BanqueSofinco. She is a graduate of Sup de Co Rouen.Assetsunder management and surveillance by the Meeschaert group totalledover EUR6bn as of the end of June 2018.