Schelcher Prince Gestion creates a Sicav with sub-funds


Schelcher Prince Gestion, an asset management firm affiliate of Arkéa Investment Services, will create a Sicav with sub-funds, replicating the existing strategies within the main OPCVM funds in its range. The move comes as part of its international development, the firm explains in an email message to its clients. “Legally, the Schelcher Prince Convertibles Sicav will be transformed into a Sicav with sub-funds, and merger-absorption operations for other flagship funds in the range from Schelcher Prince Gestion will make it possible to create other sub-funds,” the message says. As part of the transformation, the Schelcher Prince Convertibles SICAV will be renamed as Schelcher Prince Investissements. Three initial sub-funds will be created as part of the operation: Schelcher Prince Investissements - Compartiment Schelcher Prince Convertibles, corresponding to the current SICAV; Schelcher Prince Investissements - Compartiment Schelcher Prince Haut Rendement, through merger absorption of the FCP Schelcher Prince Haut Rendement; and Schelcher Prince Investissements - Compartiment Schelcher Prince Obligation Moyen Terme, through merger-absorption of the FCP Schelcher Prince Obligation Moyen Terme fund. Each of the sub-funds created will have the same name as the FCP or SICAV which already exists, in order to “better emphasize the continuity of management,” Schelcher Prince Gestion says. The asset management firm emphasizes that “these operations do not modify the return/risk profile or the costs paid by investors. The ISIN codes of each of the funds concerned also remain unchanged.” These operations were approved by the Autorité des Marchés Financiers on 3 August, 2018, and will take place on 12 October, 2018. In a second phase, three other sub-funds will be created through merger-absorption, and will affect the following funds: Schelcher Prince Court Terme, Schelcher Prince Convertible Global World and Schelcher Prince Opportunités Européennes. p { margin-bottom: 0.1in; line-height: 115%; background: transparent none repeat scroll 0% 0%; }