Axa IM wants to accelerate in Responsible Investment


As clients’ demand for ESG (Environmental, Social and Governance) accelerates, and following the strategic decision to integrate ESG analysis across its investment platforms, Axa IM announced that it is moving to the next phase of its commitment to RI to strengthen the Responsible Investment (RI) capabilities.Axa IM is integrating ESG analysis into all of its investment platforms, providing fund managers with access to proprietary ESG scores and KPIs in their front office tools, as well as additional ESG data and research. Additionally, RI specialists are progressively being embedded into each investment team to support fund managers incorporate ESG and impact analysis into their investment processes.“This new step to integrate RI throughout the business will ensure that ESG integration combines the need for common views on thematic engagements, voting and ESG scoring, while bolstering investment teams with detailed ESG corporate analysis. This will lead to increased transparency and clarity for our clients on the ESG footprint of their investments, allowing us to better engage with them and help to direct their funds into those companies that have a positive impact on society”, said Matt Christensen, Global Head of Responsible Investment at Axa IM.“Axa IM has also developed an impact investing approach that goes beyond ESG risk monitoring to encompass those companies that are making positive contributions to the UN Sustainable Development Goals. Teams across the business are now even more involved in developing our RI offering, to better address our clients’ needs with the objective of reshaping certain strategies as ESG and launching new Impact strategies”, added Matt Christensen.Within Axa IM the RI capabilities are now organised as follows: - A central RI team focusing on thematic research, corporate governance and shareholders engagement as well as on developing quantitative solutions. - As climate, human capital and health have been identified as the key thematic priorities for the centralised RI team, specialists have also been appointed for each of these three themes. Lise Moret is responsible for the climate change strategy and Marie Fromaget has recently joined Axa IM as Human Capital & Diversity analyst. In addition to their responsibilities for the green and social bonds, Julien Foll covers health and Alice Val, climate. They will work with Yo Takatsuki, who is joining Axa IM as Head of ESG of Research and Engagement, effective November 1st. - ESG specialists within the investment platforms to conduct ESG analysis at the company level. Some have already joined the investment teams: Melina Leprince-Ringuet for Framlington Equities, Shah Khan for Rosenberg and Rebecca Greenberg & Augustin Monnoyeur for Fixed Income.ESG integration is a firm wide approach at Axa IM, encompassing thematic and qualitative ESG analysis, proprietary ESG scoring, analytical solutions and reporting, as well as voting & engagement which all contribute to the investment decisions. In addition, ESG training is in place for all employees.Axa IM manages EUR442 billion of ESG-integrated assets under management (ca. 60% of the total assets under management), of which EUR16.8 billion are considered “sustainable investing” assets.