“Our transformation into a pan-European asset managenent firm is an objective for 2020”


NewsManagers: You are today announcing the creation of a department dedicated to investment solutions. What is its purpose?Jean Raby: We have created “Dynamic Solutions,” a new team of about 60 people which will include all of our asset allocation expertise and our portfolio construction. To direct the team, we have recruited James Hughes, former global head of solutions dedicated to strategic clients at Aberdeen Standard Investments. Dynamic Solutions is specialised in the development of dedicated investment solutions, and will offer a single point of access to a wide range of solutions within our multi-affiliate structure. More concretely, it is a question of consolidating pan-European investment solutions from Natixis IM within a single team. This will apply to the expertise from the old Portfolio Research & Consulting Group and Investment and Client Solutions at Ostrum AM (formerly Natixis Asset Management). Dynamic Solutions will select the constantly-evolving expertise mainly offered throughout our various affiliates to provide investment solutions which meet the needs of investors. This team will also offer consulting services, structuring and fiduciary management, and will target a wide range of institutional investors, insurers, corporate, wholesale and retail clients.NewsManagers: What conclusions do you draw from the first months of 2018?Jean Raby: We have had a very good start to the year, and thanks to the involvement of all of our teams, we have posted the strongest inflows in Europe for the first half of 2018. We have seen very strong demand, especially from major global institutionals with a large presence in Europe. Our model allows us to be flexible and reactive, and our clients continue to be attracted to an approach based on our expertise in portfolio construction and advising, rather than products. Investors today want active and differentiated strategies, and our affiliates are responding to that demand. We have observed strong demand for liquid alternative strategies and non-directional bonds offered by our affiliates H2O and DNCA in Europe, high-conviction equity strategies from Loomis Sayles and Harris Associates in the United States, and ESG strategies from Mirova. Clients are also continuing their quest for returns by turning more to liquid strategies such as private debt. In discretionary, clients are increasing the proportion of ESG products within their allocations, particularly in equities, which represents a trend that has accelerated this year.NewsManagers: You discovered the world of asset management by joining Natixis. What is your perspetive on the sector?Jean Raby: It is a sector which has had very strong years of growth and which will undoubtedly see more with the changes that are in progress, which are not minor. To name a few: with a middle class that is continuing to grow, particularly in Asia, and the need for European governments to privatise their long-term savings eventually, the asset management sector will continue to grow in coming years, which represents an opportunity for companies like ours. However, asset management is clearly facing a number of changes, and I think that the industry, like many others, may be disrupted and see the arrival of new entrants in the field. The industry is in transition, and will be transformed. Regulation works in this direction, as does digitalisation.…Read the rest of the interview with Jean Raby in French on NewsManagers.com