Novethic considers it “premature” to develop a fund range based on sustainable development goals


Novethic feels it is “premature” to develop a major range of funds based on sustainable development goals (SDG) adopted by the United Nations, or for major investors to integrate an SDG dimension into their reporting. “They are exposing themselves to a risk of ‘SDG washing,’ in the absence of relevant, consistent and reliable indicators,” the agency writes in a new study of the subject “ODD: new focus for extra-financial ratings agencies.”After the carbon footprint of portfolios, which has developed massively since 2015, the SDGs are now being used as a reference point for reporting for socially responsible investors. At the same time, several asset management firms have launched funds – about 10 – which are based on the SDG. These include Aberdeen Standard Investments, Union Investments, Ofi AM, La Financière de l’Echiquier, Robeco SAM and NN IP.The SDGs are increasingly often viewed by investors as “the appropriate framework for the evaluation of the environmental and social impact of socially responsible investment programmes,” says Novethic.The SDGs, adopted in 2015, cover 17 priority areas for action, such as eradication of poverty and hunger, health care for all, and environmental protection. They are expected to be achieved in 2030, via 169 goals. So far, only two ratings agencies out of 10 whose product ranges were analysed explicitly offer a service which analyses positive contribution on the part of businesses to the SDGs as well as their negative impact. These are ISS-Oekom, and Trucost S&P, which is in a testing phase.But the difficulty with offerings in this area for ratings agencies is a lack of data from businesses, which have not yet raised awareness of the subject.“A relevant SDG analysis is based on the quality of the data provided by businesses and their ability to publish ambitious strategies for 2030,” says Novethic. “That presupposes not only that they are able to measure and amplify their positive contribution to the SDGs, but also of evaluating and reducing their negative impact on the SDGs being achieved,” the agency adds. There is still some way to go.The missing link in the chain is analysis of the strategy of companies. To measure the positive or negative contribution of a firm, “it is necessary to analyse how the SDGs are taken into account in corporate strategy,” while today, companies are nearly silent on this subject.