BVI launches a new salvo against PRIIPs regime


For several months German association BVI has been spearheading the criticism related to the deficiencies of the PRIIPs regime. As a further step – after having sent to the Commission a joint letter with the German banking and structured products industry a few weeks ago – BVI teamed up with the Italian investment management association Assogestioni and wrote to First Vice-President Frans Timmermans and Vice-President Valdis Dombrovskis, highlighting the problem of duplicative and contradictory information on investment funds from 2020 on. In the letter the two trade bodies call for the Commission to review the PRIIPs rules as a matter of urgency.Investment funds are essential tools for purposeful retirement saving and long-term wealth creation. Each year, millions of European citizens make new choices when investing in funds. For their investment decisions, they must be provided with fair, unambiguous and not misleading information about the key features of the products. And yet, the Commission appears to disregard this demand by accepting that from 2020 on, European investors will have to be provided in parallel with two sets of basic product information on funds, one in the UCITS KIID and one in the PRIIPs KID, before reaching investment decisions. Both documents aim to inform investors about a product’s essentials like investment objectives, risk profile, costs and performance. However, due to different regulatory approaches at EU level, many details of these documents are inconsistent and contradictory. Thomas Richter, CEO of the German Investment Funds Association BVI: “A duplication of regulatory product information is very likely to confuse prospective investors and deter them from investing in funds. This outcome would be highly counterproductive to the goal of the Capital Markets Union of facilitating retail investments in the EU economy and to EU efforts of closing the gap in old-age provision. It would also undermine the very objective of the PRIIPs regime to inform investors in a fair, clear and not misleading manner and thus run counter to the principle of better regulation. Ultimately, contradictory information prescribed by EU law would only be grist to the mill of those who advocate that EU regulation is getting out of hand. We fear that this could add to the negative attitude towards the EU and its institutions.”The EU legislators’ intention was to assess the possible options for future treatment of fund information in the context of the PRIIPs review. Prolongation of the current exemption is explicitly listed among those options. The review was meant to be initiated by 31 December 2018. However, the Commission already announced that the PRIIPs review will be postponed by one year in order to take into account the delay in the entry into force of the PRIIPs framework. Thomas Richter: “The fund exemption should be extended accordingly in order to give effect to the legislative intention. The extension could be processed as a ‘quick fix’ technical measure as it would only require a change of dates. In view of the complex structural aspects of the PRIIPs framework to be reviewed, we believe an extension of the fund exemption by another two years until end 2021 would be an appropriate solution.”