Turkish crisis worries investors who stay opportunist


It is clear that the Turkish debacle is worrying investors. But not to the point of turning away from emerging markets. Despite the risks of contagion of this profound crisis, investors are not abandoning emerging markets, according to Aneeka Gupta, equity strategist at WisdomTree. “In general, investors are fairly opportunistic. The gains made in emerging currencies illutrate the fact that they are continuing to buy, even though the marktes are down and the problems in Turkey are far from resolved,” he said a few days ago.Globally, emerging countries, which have been avoided by investors for several years, no longer are now, since they are currently in a more robust condition than during previous crises, especially with reserves of about USD3.5trn as of 2018, compared with USD2trn in 2008. But for Turkey, Gupta estimates that the situation will continue to get worse, if fundamental problems are not handled with traditional tools, such as intervention by the International Monetary Fund and an increase in interest rates. Meanwhile, Kim Catechis, head for global emerging markets (GEM) at Martin Currie (Legg Mason group), estimates that the current situation represents a good entry point to emerging markets, clearly with the exception of Turkey, which is suffering from idiosynchratic problems that will not drag other emerging countries into a downward spiral. According to Zara Kazaryan, emerging market debt portfolio manager at Columbia Threadneedle, developments are most worrying for those who hold Turkish corporate debt, and more generally for emerging markets, the concerns would be the imposition of capital controls. In light of the considerable dependence on foreign capital, Turkish decision-makers will probably avoid capital controls, at least in the short term, he estimates. Fabrizio Quirighetti, CIO and head of the multi-asset team at SYZ Asset Management, recommends vigilance and selectivity. “In the context of a falling Turkish lira, but at current prices, starting from the assumption that exposure is not preponderant, it is already too late to sell. Anyway, a selective attitude is necessary, since the risks of contagion can be expected to be limited to only a few poorly-managed countries and companies. … We do not think that Turkey or a potential emerging market crisis (even if it is halted) present systematic risks. There are still a lot of other reasons to be worried if one manages a portfolio. This recent episode confrms that we must ‘prepare for the worst, while hoping for the best.’ … Diversification, while retaining good qualty bonds in terms of credit, or an exposure to Japanese yen, can make it possible to limit certain losses, while waiting for a more favourable context for high-risk assets.”