Mediolanum reinforces investment team


Mediolanum Asset Management (MAML), the Irish asset management company of the Mediolanum Banking Group, today announced the appointments of Astrid Schilo as Multi Asset Strategist and Inma Conde as Head of Manager Research, in Dublin. Following the hire of Christophe Jaubert as Head of Investments, the addition of Astrid and Inma is part of the continuous expansion of MAML’s investment capabilities. A German native, Astrid has over 15 years’ experience of financial markets research and forecasting policy. After having served as Exane BNP Paribas’ Chief European Economist for four years, Astrid worked at the International Monetary Fund as Investment Officer in their Public Markets Group. Before joining MAML, Astrid was Research Senior Principal at Accenture Research, where she was involved in a major artificial intelligence project. Astrid will join MAML’s Strategy Team and contribute to the investment decisions of the broader investment team, as well as provide economic data and financial markets’ analysis.Inma Conde joins from Minnesota Philanthropy Partner, one of the largest community foundations in the US – where she held the position of Director of Investments. Having built a solid track-record among top tier US Investment managers over the past 20 years, Inma will head Mediolanum’s analyst team, responsible for manager selection. She will work closely with portfolio managers to identify best fund ideas, in accordance with Mediolanum’s proprietary investment process “Med3”.Furio Pietribiasi, Managing Director at Mediolanum Asset Management Limited commented: “We are delighted to have Astrid and Inma onboard. Their extensive experience and rigour in making investment decisions provides an ideal fit for MAML’s investment approach, targeting performance excellence. Astrid’s background in financial markets and multi-asset management, combined with Inma’s consistent performance when researching managers, will add additional strength to MAML’s successful multi management portfolio management.”MAML is an early adopter of new emerging technologies in asset management. The firm’s DNA is built on a technology infrastructure and vision which leverages Robotic Process Automation (RPA) in its operations and uses its Enterprise Data Warehouse (EDW) in combination with a sophisticated range of analytics and AI tools to support customer experience and the investment and risk management processes. The firm’s philosophy is to build innovation by experimenting with small emerging players and collaborating with established flagship suppliers. MAML’s internal technology expertise, specifically around alternative data, Machine learning and AI has become critical to understanding and evaluating the most sophisticated emerging quant strategies - and to best inform decisions to fund or incubate new strategies and managers.