Fidelity launches first tracker funds with no fees


It’s a revolution in the world of index-based management, and an asset management firm with a reputation for its conviction-based management has triggered it. The US-based asset management firm Fidelity Investments on 1 August announced the launch of two new index-based funds, which will charge no management fees. In a step that goes far beyond a commercial coup, Fidelity has stepped over a Rubicon that had held the sector in, but which nobody had yet dared to cross.The names of the funds themselves express it: Fidelity ZERO Total Market Index and Fidelity ZERO International Index fund. The two products track US and international equity indices which Fidelity has developed internally, as a way to reduce its own costs to a minimum, as they no longer rely on an external index provider such as S&P or Solactive.For the two funds, no minimum investment is required to invest. This is also an important point, as in the price war currently raging between index-based fund providers in the United States, the effects of volume are meant to compensate for lower margins. “We are in the process of blazing a new path in index-based management, which will benefit investors of all ages and at all stages in their lives,” says Kathleen Murphy, president of the personal investing activity at Fidelity Investments, in a statement. Offering zero-fee funds represents a practical step “unrialled by any other financial services company.”Investors are also convinced. Following the announcement by Fidelity, shares in its main rivals, such as BlackRock, Franklin Resources and Invesco lost more than 4%. But the attack is certainly aimed at Vanguard, who have in the past few years constantly lowered their management fees on ETFs, as far as only three or four basis points. That policy has led to a ferocious price war, not only in passive management, but also in active management.How can earnings or profits be generated when funds are offered without management fees? Fidelity, which has over USD2.5trn in assets under management, has a very profitable active management franchise, was certainly one of the best-placed to make such a move. The profitability of other activities, will allow it to fill the gap. Its distribution platforms in the United States, which are performing very well, will undoubtedly also help orient its clients from these funds into other more profitable products for the US asset management firm. The company is so confident that it has even announced a reduction in fees over all of its equity and bond index-based fund range of an average of 35%, representing about USD47m in savings annually for investors.