Oddo BHF AM integrates ESG factors into credit portfolios


The Oddo BHF Asset Management company (Oddo BHF AM) on 30 July announced its decision to extend the integration of environmental, social and governance (ESG) factors into its euro investment grade credit portfolios. As part of this move, the Luxembourg-registered fund Oddo BHF Euro Corporate Bond becomes the first bond fund to incorporate ESG criteria into its investment process, the asset management firm says in a statement.Previously, ESG integration had only included equity funds. Overall. Oddo BHF AM has nearly EUR7.5bn in assets under management which integrate ESG criteria, equivalent to 12% of total assets under management. “The integration of ESG is an additional layer within a well-established fundamental investment process, with a performance track record of over six years for equity funds,” the asset management firm says. For euro investment grade portfolios, the ESG process begins with the identification and exclusion of issuers who have very high ESG risks. In a second phase, ESG analysis complements fundamental credit analysis, by preparing the ground for construction of the portfolio. “While the ESG rating for equities has implications for valuation, the ESG rating for a bond issuer improves the quality of the portfolio by further reducing the execution risks specific to a firm. We believe strongly that ESG integration will further improve a well-established investment process which will deliver even more robust management results in the future.”The ESG integration approach at Oddo BHF AM is based on two pillars: the first is ‘best-in-universe,” which ranks each security in relation to the entire investment universe, and not only those within its sector. As part of this, “the portfolio manager evaluates the specific risks for each sector, and opportunities related to ESG criteria,” Oddo BHF AM says. This qualitative analysis is expected to contribute significantly to the proprietary ESG tool from the asset management firm, a platform which is concentrated on 42 different criteria. On the basis of this analysis, an ESG rating is applied to all securities in the investable universe, and directly influences the construction of portfolios. The second pillar is engagement with businesses: in regular meetings with companies, portfolio managers emphasize the importance of ESG risks, and support a positive ESG dynamic, Oddo BHF AM concludes.