KKR and Williams to acquire Discovery Midstream for USD1.2 Billion


KKR announced that it has entered into an agreement to acquire Discovery Midstream from TPG Growth for approximately $1.2 billion. KKR is acquiring the provider of natural gas and oil gathering and natural gas processing services company through a newly formed joint venture with Williams . The transaction is being funded primarily through KKR’s energy and infrastructure funds. Founded in 2015 and based in Dallas, Texas, Discovery operates in the southern portion of Colorado’s Denver-Julesburg Basin («DJ Basin»). The company’s infrastructure and related facilities are strategically located across more than 250,000 dedicated acres primarily in Weld and Adams counties. The Discovery system includes both natural gas and crude oil gathering pipelines, cryogenic gas processing, liquids handling and crude oil storage. The Discovery assets include a 60 million cubic feet per day (MMcf/d) gas processing plant with an additional 200 MMcf/d plant that is fully permitted and under construction. It is expected to be in service by the end of 2018. «We are excited to partner with Williams in the acquisition of Discovery,» said James Cunningham, Managing Director on KKR’s Energy and Infrastructure team. «The Discovery team has built a strong gathering and processing infrastructure footprint to service growing production in the DJ Basin and Williams is well known as a safe and reliable operator of large-scale G&P systems in the Rockies. This fits well with our long-term focus on partnering with top-tier operators who prioritize operational excellence and stakeholder engagement when working on premier North American midstream infrastructure assets. We look forward to supporting the continued growth of Discovery alongside management and Williams for many years to come.» Upon close, which is subject to customary closing conditions and expected to occur in the third quarter of 2018, Discovery will be led by its existing management team and Williams’ initial economic contribution and ownership will be 40 percent of the purchase price, while KKR’s initial economic contribution and ownership will be 60 percent of the purchase price. Williams will be the operator of Discovery and will hold a majority of governance voting rights. Williams has committed to fund additional capital as required to bring its economic ownership to 50/50. «We are pleased to partner with KKR on this outstanding acquisition opportunity,» said Alan Armstrong, Williams’ President and CEO. «As one of the premiere providers of large-scale energy infrastructure with operations across the natural gas value chain, we look forward to serving the Discovery customers in this growing basin with our industry-leading midstream services and working with KKR, whose energy and infrastructure investments and strategic partnerships are well-known and highly regarded.»