Eurizon scales up presence in Zurich and Frankfurt


Eurizon, the asset management firm from the Italian bank Intesa Sanpaolo, is continuing its development in Europe, opening a sales office in Zurich, Switzerland, and adding to its teams in Frankfurt, Germany, NewsManagers has learnt.For its new Zurich office, Eurizon has recruited Manuel Dalla Corte as country head for Switzerland. Dalla Corte joins from Aviva Global Investors, where he had been director of development, based in Zurich. He has also worked for Jefferies, LODH & Cie and UBS Wealth Management.In Frankfurt, where the asset management firm has had an office for several months, Eurizon is recruiting Jörg Ahlheid as senior sales manager for Germany and Austria. Ahlheid, who had previously been country manager for Germany and Austria at La Financière de l’Echiquier, will work alongside Howard Luder, country manager for Germany, Austria and the Netherlands. The two will soon transfer to the defintive base of the firm.Finally, Eurizon has initiated the procedure to create a sales affiliate in Spain. “We had previously been in Spain via a collaboration with a third party marketing firm, which we worked with for several years. We want to go further now, by opening an office,” explains Gabriele Miodini, head of sales and client management at Eurizon Capital.The three offices come in addition to the French structure, founded in 2015, and is managed by Romain Roucoules, country head, and Cédric Genet, senior sales manager for France and Belgium.Eurizon is also present in Northern Europe, more specifically in Sweden, Denmark and Finland. But the firm is continuing to rely on a TPM to cover these markets currently.“We have chosen to develop our activity in some European countries which are considered strategic, through the creation of new offices. Direct presence on the territory represents the best approach to penetrate markets, facilitating relationships with domestic institutional clients,” saysa Gabriele Miodini.Miodini says that the opening of these offices “confirms the growth strategy for Eurizon in Europe, where the firm is one of the largest in terms of inflows.” Without revealing too many figures, he says that “the impact on inflows from outside Italy or outside the group is growing.”Eurizon has also shown that it has ambitions in Europe at a time when rumours have been circulating concerning BlackRock acquiring a stake in its capital. On this subject, Miodini points out that the CEO of the bank, Carlo Messina, has clearly reaffirmed his intention to find a partner for Eurizon, so long as majority is retained among stakeholders in the asset management affiliate. Messina adds that it has not been ruled out for the partner to be BlackRock, but that it may be another company.