BP2S to rely on United States and digital for growth


BNP Paribas Securities Services is aiming to be a global player, with a multi-local structure. As an addition to its international structure, the group has recently acquired the middle and back office activities of Janus Henderson in the United States. This will allow the firm to become a provider of services to US-registered mutual funds from Janus Henderson, representing about USD130bn in assets. “The idea is to make the platform eligible to handle other asset management firms,” explains Patrick Colle, CEO of BP2S, at a press conference (also see his interview in NewsManagers on 29 January). BP2S is planning to target US mid-tier asset management firms, which are less well served by major local players, and which are increasingly seeking to deploy their activities in Europe and Asia. In the United States, this segment includes numerous large players.Secondly, the group is hoping to support European and Asian clients to develop in the United States. This is a considerable point, as, according to Colle, many companies “want to go to the United States, often through acquisitions.” Colle predicts that several acquisitions can be expected from Europe in the United States.Meanwhile, the platform needs to be adapted to have the capacity to handle other asset management firms. “It will take 18 months to two years from closing,” which took place in April this year, says Colle. This project is part of a 10-year development plan in the United States, which is not yet public.BP2S is also present in Asia, and of course in Europe, with a strong base in France, its domestic market. The group has EUR9.401trn in assets under custody, and EUR2.218trn in assets under administration as of the end of first quarter 2018.One of the other drivers of growth at BP2S is digitalization of the product range. The group has announced that it will soon deploy a digital solution which combines machine learning and artificial intelligence, for the depository controlling authority. It has been developed in partnership with Fortia Financial Solutions, a regtech in which BNP Paribas has acquired a stake of 15%. The group is currently in the final phases of testing at its three pilot sites (France, Germany and Luxembourg), and will then deploy this solution in other countries.BP2S is also working in other areas, such as a solution to read documents and extract reference data, and one to control the quality of NAVs.Digitalization is transforming the way teams work at BP2S, eliminating tasks, but creating new ones, the director says. “Instead of a processing centre, we are becoming an innovation centre,” says Franck Dubois, head for France at BP2S.