Axa IM announces reshuffle and lays off 210


Axa Investment Managers (Axa IM), the asset management affiliate of the Axa group, has announced that it is planning to launch “a new organisational model to support its growth strategy and better respond to the needs of its clients.” The new model, which aims to be simpler and more client-oriented, will include a new management board, and the loss of 210 jobs, to allow the firm to finance EUR100m in investment by 2020 to “support its development as an asset manager.” The group is planning to focus its efforts in four priority areas, to generate higher profits: alternative investment product ranges, multi-asset and specialist fixed income, the integration of ESG criteria, digital capacity and expertise in quant, and data science. The business committee was this morning informed of this new organisation. France will be affected with about 160 layoffs, while the United Kingdom will lose about 40 positions. A voluntary departure plan has been offered in France.Axa IM says in a statement that it wishes to “limit the social consequences which these changes may cause as much as possible, and will support its employees during this period of change. The target organisation may be established in fourth quarter 2018, after consultation with employee representative bodies.”Three new members will join the management board: Bettina Ducat, Global Head of Product, Retail and Institutional Development, Matthew Lovatt, Global Head of Axa IM Framlington Equities, and Hans Stoter, who joins Axa IM as Global Head of Fixed Income. Following a decision by Laurence Boone last week to join the OECD, Stoter will also become interim head of the Multi Assets Client Solutions team. In addition to Boone, other departures from the management board are Mark Beveridge (Global Head Axa Framlington Equities), Christophe Coquema (Global Head of Client Group) and John Porter. According to information obtained by NewsManagers, Porter is the only other one of these individuals to be leaving the group. Beveridge will manage a fund in the United States. Coquema will remain at the firm.