“There is enormous potential in the bond ETF market”


NewsManagers: Why create an ETF issuer now, where then sector is concentrating? Is there really room for new, small players?Michael John Lytle: When Source was created in 2008-2009, the sector was also consolidating, and there were a lot of pure issuers alongside the major players.The question was asked then also about whether the market had room for another player. The answer was yes, on the condition that that player had a truly European solution, with a complete range, including commodities in particular. Our angle was to be truly holistic and to ‘connect’ with banks. That also led BlackRock to be more proactive with banks.Now, the market is different. There are still a lot of players, even though the market is consolidating. What we observe is that the equity universe is very loaded down. Additionally, there are a lot of different nuances in the equity universe, with smart beta, ‘plan vanilla,’ etc.But for the bond universe, it is completely different. Passive strategies represent only 5% of assets placed in bond funds, compared with 30% for equities.There are more than 400 bond ETFs in Europe, but nearly half of the assets managed are concentrated in the 20 largest funds.Although beta has been defined in the equity universe, this is not the case for the bond market. So this fundamental question needs to be answered.Finally, in bonds, the asset subclasses are very distinct – emerging market debt, loans, etc. – and very different from one another. This is not at all the same thing as equities. Today, most bond ETFs which exist offer exposure to cash credit and cash govies. Many segments of the sector are not represented. The innovation which we have made in equity ETFs has not reached the bond sector.So there is enormous potential in the bond ETF markets, whether that be simply in catching up with equities, or the range of strategies we can offer.NewsManagers: Isn’t it harder to build bond products?Michael John Lytle: It is very expensive to manage bond ETFs, and it requires special capacities. There are a lot of friction costs which can be very high.NewsManagers: For the ETFs you are planning to launch, will you build your own indices, or have you teamed up with partners?Michael John Lytle: We have teamed up with IHS Markit. They will let us create benchmark indices based on CDS for our first ETFs. We have not ruled out teaming up with others. Partnerships are vital in the bond universe, though we are a small company.NewsManagers; How many of you are there at Tabula?Michael John Lytle: There are eight of us and there will be 10 by this summer. We have a few more people on ‘gardening leave.’ We are a small team, but through the various partnerships we have formed, we have the ability to take off. HSBC will bring us custody and administration services, as well as potential banking services. KB Associates will assist us to create our ETFs in Ireland. Lastly, until we have our own license, we will operate as a mandated representative of Cheyne Capital....Read the rest of this interview in the French version of NewsManagers