DWS seeking to demonstrate its ability to keep promises


More than two months after the initial public offering for DWS, Nicolas Moreau, CEO of the asset management affiliate of Deutsche Bank, has clearly reaffirmed his ambitions, as DWS shares have been trading at a price below its initial offering price of EUR32.50. “We want to demonstrate quarter after quarter that we are able to keep our promises: net inflows of 3% to 5% per year, a margin of over 30 basis points, a cost/income ratio of less than 65%, and a profit distribution rate of 65% to 75%,” the director says in an interview with Agefi Hebdo.To achieve these objectives, “the retail segment in Europe is a target growth area for us,” says Moreau. “We hold fifth place in the European market, which is the most profitable market for DWS,” he says. Meanwhile, the asset management firm has created a working group “to strengthen our activities in quantitative management, which has EUR64bn in assets, which we want to increase considerably,” says Moreau. Lastly, the asset management firm is seeking to develop its structured credit activity further. “We are relaunching our efforts in collateralized loan obligations (CLO) in Europe, and we are looking at growth opportunities in the United States,” the DWS head explains. “We are also planning to launch a fund with Deutsche Bank in September, which will provide sourcing for the assets.”To give substance to these ambitions, Moreau remains open to external growth operations. “Our ambitions in quantitative management and structured credit may include bolt-on acquisitions,” he admitted. “We are currently considering cases with a total value of EUR100m to EUR200m, but we are able to go beyond that.”The director also notes that DWS has set a cost savings objective of EUR125m to EUR150m by 2020. To achieve this transformation, the asset management firm has recently appointed Nikitas Psyllakis as head of transformation. As part of this process, DWS does not rule out discontinuing small activities which are not profitable and generate modest revenue. “For example, we have pulled out of domestic funds in Japan to rely on our partnership with Nippon Life, and we have sold a private equity fund of fund in Germany,” says Moreau.With a strong presence in several major European countries, Moreau has not overlooked the French market, where the firm is not yet “in the place we would like to be in terms of assets under management,” he admits. In a particularly competitive market, “if we are able to ensure growth of our assets under management of about 50% in three years, that will already be a fine performance,” the head says. In a sign of its commitment to the French market, DWS this month appointed Olivier Dubost de Cadalvène as head of its French arm, Moreau says. “We are also studying two partnerships, including one with Tikehau Capital, which entered capital at the time of the IPO, and with whom we may launch co-managed funds to combine the best of our expertise,” the director explains. “A second partnership, which we hope to close in 2018, will let us improve distribution of our products in France.”