BlackRock creates a geopolitical risk indicator


p { margin-bottom: 0.1in; line-height: 115%; } The timing is perfect: BlackRock has launched an indicator dedicated to geopolitical risks. The BlackRock Geopolitical Risk Indicator monitors and evaluates events which may affect markets worldwide, including a decision-making tool for managers for their investment decisions, BlackRock states. The BGRI for May 2018 covers political risks in Italy, tensions in the Middle East, commercial tensions between China and the United States, US sanctions on companies that do business with Iran, relations between the United States and North Korea, and tensions between Russia and NATO. The new indicator makes it possible for clients and managers to examine risks and develop effective investment strategies, highlighting the 10 main geopolitical risks and their potential mpact on the markets. This combines analysis from BlackRock and its detailed knowledge of geopolitics, and exclusive indicators which measure market attention to each of the risks identified. The indicator also includes expert analysis and quantitative analysis of each of the main risks, and analyses the impact of risks in valuation. The BlackRock Geopolitical Risk Indicator more precisely evaluates the influence of geopolitical risk on the market, through an analysis of articles published in the media and on Twitter. THe BGRI takes into account the frequency of articles and tweets with keywords related to geopolitics, the tone of publications (positive or negative) and assigns an index to each theme identified. The higher the score for this index is, the more financial analysts and the media are referring to a geopolitical risk. For the top 10 geopolitical risks identified, the BlackRock Investment Institute offers a description of the situation, a summary of the context, and recent news and crisis factors. It also monitors developments over time via the BGRI. Additionally, assets which are especially sensitive to the geopolitical risks identified are analysed via their evolution in the BGRI.