Primonial scales up governance


p { margin-bottom: 0.1in; line-height: 115%; } The Primonial group is scaling up its governance, with the appointment of Valéry Bordes as CEO, and the recruitment of Thibault Demoulin to replace him as chief financial officer. Bordes joined the group in 2011, and who has been deputy CEO since 2017, will see his responsibilities enlarged. In addition to directing finance, operations (middle office, IT) and projects, Bordes will now also be responsible for directing group legal. He will be responsible for ensuring the fluidity and security of all processes and activities, in a context of strong growth at the Primonial group. The financial functions at the group have been reinforced with the arrival of Demoulin as chief financial officer / investor relationships. Demoulin will work to assist the development of the group with his expertise in identifying drivers of performance, and to ensure investor relations at the group within its ecosystem of shareholders and financial backers. “The Primonial group has in the past few years seen strong development, through organic growth as well as external growth, with the acquisition of La Financière de l’Echiquier in France, and Aviarent (real estate) in Germany. In this context, we are going to evolve our organization to improve our operating efficiency and better prepare for the European strategic challenges of tomorrow,” says Stéphane Vidal, chairman of the Primonial group, in a statement. Bordes, 54, spent the most of his career in the insurance sector, first at General Electrical Capital Asurance as financial controller, after a short period at SSII. In 1999, he joined the Northern Europe insurance group as administrative and financial director, to assist the development of the company for more than 12 years. In 2011, he joined the Primonial group, firstly as chief financial officer and then with responsibility for all operations. In 2017, he was appointed as deputy CEO responsible for finance and operations. Demoulin, 38, a graduate of Toulouse Business School, began his career at PwC, and has worked there for seven years, specialising in auditing and consulting responsibilities in the life insurance sector. He then served for four years as chief financial officer at a family office, responsible for private equity projects, and in 2014 joined the financial management at a pharmaceutical laboratory specialised in processing, and assisted it with external growth.