RobecoSAM strengthens ties with parent company Robeco


p { margin-bottom: 0.1in; line-height: 115%; } RobecoSAM, a specialist in sustainable investment, has announced the creation of a “new management model for the company, to strengthen ties between RobecoSAM and Robeco in order to fully unlock the potential between the two companies and to maintain their leading position in sustainable investment.” The board of directors at RobecoSAM has decided to set up a new matri organization, in which Robeco will exercise functional control over RobecoSAM, “to intensify the collaboration between the two companies,” the Zurich-based company says. RobecoSAM will have a leaner executive committee. As a result, Aris Prepoudis, currently CEO of RobecoSAM, has decided to leave the asset management firm, in agreement with the board of directors. RobecoSAM will now be led by two co-CEOs. These will be Marius Dorfmeister, currently Head of Global Clients and Marketing, and Daniel Wild, currently Head of Sustainability Investing Research & Development. Both are also members of the executive committee at RobecoSAM. Wild will also assume an advisory role to Robeco executive committee, RobecoSAM says in a statement. Rainer Baumann, currently head of investment management and a member of the executive committee at RobecoSAM, has decided to resign from the executive board. He will remain at the company as Head of Investments. «This will allow him to focus purely on investments and on enhancing the alignment of RobecoSAM’s’ and Robeco’s investment processes», RobecoSAM says. To increase scale and synergies, the two asset management firms have decided to set up a new joint team dedicated to thematic investments, entitled “Trends & Thematics Investment.” This team, based both in Zurich and Rotterdam, will oversee EUR7bn in assets under management. The new unit will be led by Mark van der Kroft, who joins from NN Investment Partners (NN IP), where he had worked since March 2017. Before that, he served for 16 years at Robeco, where he served in a variety of positions, including chief investment officer of Equity Investments.