DWS optimistic for coming quarters


p { margin-bottom: 0.1in; line-height: 115%; } Despite net outflows of EUR7.8bn in first quarter, DWS, the asset management affiliate of the Deutsche Bank group, on 26 April emphasized in a statement, its first as an independent entity within the group, that it is opimtistic about the moths to come. “The pipeline of activities built up in recent months and the high level of engagement in first quarter support the prospect of positive net inflows in the next few quarters,” a statement says. “Despite an agitated quarter, we have successfully completed our initial public offering and positioned DWS as a global brand, ensuring our transition to a new era. We are in a good position to achieve our objectives, as we have also adopted a range of measures to favour our growth and improve our cost management. We are now concentrating on achieving new objectives as a publicly-traded company,” says Nicolas Moreau, CEO, in a statement. DWS states that it has appointed a chief transformation officer in the wake of the initial public offering who will coordinate the efforts necessary to reduce costs and favour the necessary changes to improve organisational efficiency. DWS has already recruited employees, including in digital, to accelerate growth. Other investments in this direction are to come in second quarter. DWS is also planning to develop its digital platform IKS, which has about EUR100bn in assets under administration, and to consolidate its digital product range, with the robo-adviser WISE and the investment app Edison, launched in March this year. Meanwhile, assets total EUR676bn, down 3% compared with the end of 2017, and adjusted pre-tax profits total EUR136m, compared with EUR146m in fourth quarter, and EUR202m in first quarter 2017. The cost/income ratio has been maintained at 76% quarter on quarter, and the margin has totalled 31.1 basis points, up by 0.4 basis points compared with fourth quarter 2017, exceeding the mid-term objective of 30 basis points.