ICG appointed new team in European infrastructure equity investment strategy


Intermediate Capital Group (ICG) announced the launch of a new European Infrastructure Investment team dedicated to investing in core and core-plus* infrastructure.The new strategy will be led by Guillaume d’Engremont who will become Managing Director and Head of European Infrastructure as of May. Also joining ICG are Jérôme Sousselier and Ludovic Laforge, who will report to Mr d’Engremont. The team was previously working together at EDF Invest.Mr d’Engremont has an eight year track record in infrastructure investment, following thirteen years in M&A, mainly at Rothschild. Most recently Mr d’Engremont was Head of EDF Invest, EDF’s investment arm in infrastructure, real estate and private equity, which he founded in 2013 and where he built and managed an investment portfolio of €5.4bn – 80% of which invested in transport and energy infrastructure assets across Europe including in France, UK, Italy, Spain, the Netherlands and Germany. He has held board positions in a number of infrastructure companies, including Nice Airport, Thyssengas, Porterbrook, TIGF/Terega, Geosel, Madrilena Red de Gas or Q-Park. He graduated from HEC.Mr Sousselier joins as Managing Director. Previously he was Head of Infrastructure at EDF Invest, where he was responsible for sourcing investments and identifying consortium partners, as well as driving the deal process. Mr Sousselier has an eight year track record in infrastructure investment, with an industrial focus/background, at EDF Invest and GE Alstom as well as M&A experience gained at Goldman Sachs. He has held board positions in a number of infrastructure companies such as Thyssengas, TIGF/Terega or Madrilena Red de Gas. He graduated from Sciences Po Paris and holds an MBA from Berkeley.Mr Laforge joins as Associate Director. Mr Laforge was part of EDF Invest infrastructure investment team responsible for sourcing and executing transactions across Europe, and managing portfolio companies. He previous worked in M&A at EDF and Rothschild. He has held board positions in a number of infrastructure companies such as Géosel or Nice Airport. He graduated from Sciences Po Paris.Commenting on the establishment of the new strategy, Benoît Durteste, Chief Investment Officer and Chief Executive Officer at ICG, said:“The investment opportunity in infrastructure is particularly compelling given the immense and growing demand for additional investment in European infrastructure assets. The ability to match long-lived, stable, high quality assets and a running yield is very appealing to investors with long-term liabilities. This makes it an exciting time to be launching a dedicated infrastructure strategy.“Guillaume d’Engremont and the team bring significant experience in both investing and managing high quality infrastructure assets. He and his team have real credibility in this asset class and will bring a new dimension to ICG. ”Guillaume d’Engremont said, “I am greatly looking forward to joining ICG and establishing a new European infrastructure equity investment strategy. We will be building on the existing strong track record of both the team and ICG’s own 29 years of offering investors strategies that generate income and consistently high returns while protecting investment downside”.