«By splitting the group in two, we free each activity from the constraints that can sometimes exist in large multinationals. "- M&amp;G


NewsManagers : What were the reasons that led to the announcement of the split last March?Anne Richards : It is true that less than a year has elapsed between the merger of M&G and Prudential’s UK & Europe life insurance business and the announcement of the demerger of the resulting merged entity, M&G Prudential, from the Prudential plc itself, which will thus be separated from the group’s US and Asian businesses. As a reminder, the Prudential group started an activity in Asia several years ago, long before it was a consensual destination. And it turned out to be the right decision. When Mike Wells was appointed Prudential’s CEO three years ago, he felt that we had reached a high level of maturity in the different markets in which we were present and that each business would benefit more from a dedicated and focused strategy. By splitting the group in two, we free each activity from the constraints that can sometimes exist in large multinationals. We are going to create companies that will be more agile and that will each be able to determine a strategy that will stick as closely as possible to customer expectations. It is not simple, because there are a number of things to settle, particularly legal issues, and it takes time. NM : What does this mean in terms of development? Are you going to be limited to Europe now?A.R. : M&G Prudential has a mainly British and European customer base - but not exclusively. We also have customers all over the world. The solutions we offer to them is however different from the Prudential one, since it concerns investments.When the group will be split in two, we will have two completely independent entities. But we will continue to maintain relationships with the other company, particularly because M&G manages some of its assets. This is the case, for example, with their Asian life insurance company. There are also places where we have shared distribution agreements. And we will continue to work together, even though Prudential plc will now be a partner in the same way as other companies are. NM : Will the Asian business side have people based in Europe who will compete with you?In theory, yes. In practice, they will already have a lot to do in Asia! However, Eastpring, the group’s Asian asset management company, may want to develop further in Europe.NM : And, on the contrary, do you intend to accentuate your efforts in Asia?A.R. : We already have 70 people based in Asia. We have a real estate activity that is very successful in the region. We have distribution activity in Asia with global and private banks, family offices, funds of funds, IFAs, institutional investors, etc. which remains modest but works well. We intend to continue our efforts. This mainly concerns asset management. We have not developed our insurance business in Asia and I do not think we will do it.NM : Do you intend to enter new markets in Europe?A.R. : We cover almost all major European markets today. The most recent one was Greece in 2016. Our development prospects lie more in the deepening of each market. For example, we intend to expand our distribution to channels that we do not yet cover.NM : After the Brexit, you announced the strengthening of your range of Sicav and the launch of a legal structure in Luxembourg. How is the project going ?A.R. : We were a relatively separate case as we were one of the few UK management companies to offer non-UK investors with OEICs. Our plan therefore provides that each strategy relevant to non-UK investors has a parallel equivalent strategy in the SICAV. At the moment, we have transferred four UK-based open funds to equivalent funds in our Luxembourg platform in the first quarter, which represents around €11billion. These were funds that only had customers domiciled outside of the UK. For the rest of our funds, we have not made a decision yet. We have different options that we will activate according to what will emerge from the political agreements. Our priority is to protect our customers and ensure that the experience is seamless for them.NM : How much will this transformation cost you?A.R. : We do not reveal any precise figure on this. However, on the bright side, Brexit has pushed us to create a range of Sicavs, which some global distributors prefer to OEICs. This could help us attract new customers who would not have invested in our UK range otherwise.NM : Could you remind us of the exact amounts involved in the transfer?A.R. : The transferred funds had a combined AUM of €11.4 billion (when we first announced that we would transfer the funds the combined AUM was €7 billion), out of a total of €90 billion in the OEIC range. Among this range, approximately 50% of the assets correspond to non-UK customers. NM : You recently wrote an article in the Financial Times to promote a new way of assessing funds, including extra-financial criteria. Why? A.R. : I have indeed proposed to develop a new set of long-term performance measures for funds that integrates environmental impact, carbon footprint, sustainable supply chain, social impact, diversity and inclusion. I think it is important for any investor to be able to compare funds according to non-financial criteria. If we really want impact investments or ESG to become commonplace, we need a common language and common criteria. This article has provoked more reactions than any other article I have ever written! I’ve had e-mails from all kinds of market players: index providers, consultants, professional associations, asset managers, investors... This really is encouraging. NM : What’s the next step? A.R. : It will be for me to set up an informal working group with those who have expressed an interest in the subject. Then we’ll see! NM : What do you think of the now compulsory publication of the gender gap for companies in the United Kingdom? Do you think this will help reduce inequalities?A.R. : Yes, I think so! It already is extremely useful to force business leaders to question the difference in pay between men and women in their organisation and the reason for this difference. This movement is really growing, because it is public. That is a great first step.My main concern remains in the way in which data is structured. For example, partnerships, which are primarily male-dominated, are not required to include partners in the data they report. So this does not give a very accurate representation of the reality of the company. My other biggest concern is that the data does not enable to differentiate full time and part time contracts. For example, at M&G, 19% of women work part-time and only 1% of men do. I agree that our figures in this area are not good, as it is the case in our whole industry. But it’s not as bad as it seems because of the biases I cited. So I hope we will be able to provide adjusted and more representative data. Still, it remains an extraordinary initiative. The problem we see everywhere across all sectors, and especially in ours, is that there are too few women at the highest levels of management. We could discuss the reasons why for quite some time. However, if we really want to achieve a parity, women must be better represented in the top management of companies, and we must work on that. This is of course a «talent pool» issue, but the most important thing is to ensure that at every stage there are no conscious or unconscious biases that lead to the elimination of women from certain positions.