“The ones who remain independent and who practice real active management have a place more than ever” - BDL CM


NewsManagers: How has 2017 gone for you?Thierry Dupont: It has gone rather well. We have seen a net inflow of EU461m, and today, we have EUR2.3bn in assets under management, compared with EUR1.7bn in January 2017. Assets are distributed as follows: EUR1.7b nfor BDL Rempart Europe, our European equity long/short fund, and EUR304m for BDL Convictions, our long-only European equity fund. The rest I managed under management mandates.NewsManagers: How do you explain your success in recent years?Thierry Dupont: What has made us successful has been our profile as an independent asset management firm specialised in stock-picking, which manages funds in which the partners have all invested. Clients and distributors recognize that this is important for savings investors. These arguments carry more weight than in previous years.NewsManagers: Why?Thierry Dupont: We are in a sector in which there is a lot of consolidation, where the independent actors are not really independent anymore, where the trend is toward industrialisation, where passive management is gaining scale. In this environment, the ones who remain independent and who practice real active management like us have a place more than ever. But to do that, you have to have resources.NewsManagers: What resources do you have?Thierry Dupont: We have human resources! We have 31 employees, where we had 27 last year. We have 13 financial analysts, the largest team of analysts at any independent asset management firm in Paris, and three managers. We are also planning to add to our team of analysts this year. Six of our employees are engineers.NewsManagers: What areas have you strengthened your teams in?Thierry Dupont: In 2017, we added to our IT infrastructure with new resources to assist with management, measure risk, and assist research. All of our IT systems are designed internally. Since last year, we have been analysing passive management flows and the influence they have on our management.We have also added to our sales department dedicated to independent financial advisers (CGP) with the recruitment of Guillaume Gosselin. The team now includes two employees. We have also recruited one person for compliance, and one more for middle office.NewsManagers: With EUR1.7bn in assets, does your BDL Rempart Europe fund really have more capacity?Thierry Dupont: Of course it does! It is clear that this is not a fund which can go to EUR5bn, but for now, it is not necessary to close it. The limit is liquidity for shorts. However, our long-only Euorpean equity fund BDL Convictions deserves more inflows. It has had good performance: 10.8% annually over eight years (performance since creation as of 15/03/2018)....Read the rest of the interview in the French version of Newsmanagers.com