Luxembourg and Ireland confirm leadership in post-Brexit fund battle


In the battle that is now setting European countries against one another to attract the domicile of UCITS funds, France appears to have lost the race. The numbers are unequivocal: in 2017, Luxembourg and Ireland dominated UCITS mutual fund inflows in Europe, with EUR281bn and EUR242bn, respectively, according to statistics released by the European Fund and Asset Management Association (EFAMA). By comparison, in third place, the United Kingdom, had inflows five times less (EUR54bn), and France had nearly six times less (about EUR50bn), even though these figures are the best seen in years. This phenomenon exists even though the difference in size between their respective fund markets is not so great. According to EFAMA, Luxembourg has EUR3.486trn in assets under management in UCITS funds, and Ireland has EUR3.831trn, while the United Kingdom and France have EUR1.225trn and EUR874bn, respectively. However, these figures do not include management mandates, which considerably increase the size of the French management market (EUR4trn, according to the AFG).But the main point is UCITS funds, which allow asset management firms to better export outside their domestic borders. “58% of assets are now administered in Ireland and Luxembourg, and these countries attract 72% of sales,” says Pascal Koenig, a partner at Deloitte. This is not a great surprise, in light of the number of British or American players with headquarters in London (the most visible of which is M&G), which are duplicating most of their funds with Luxembourg or Irish registrations. Even French players, despite the FROG initiative, have also continued to register new and old funds in Luxembourg.These two countries increased their lead considerably in 2017 for fund domiciles. But the local interpretation of European regulations concerning outsourcing of asset management has played a key role in this trend. “With Brexit, British and American asset management firms may lose their ability to sell their products in continental Europe. So they need to create asset management firms which fully meet European regulations. But to avoid this risk, they now have an opportunity in the form of certain countries allowing them to create structures of a limited substance, and to thus duplicate a part of their product range through asset management outsourcing to the less subtantial company from the British or American parent company. The product range thus fully accesses the European market and has a European distribution passport, without the actual manager being answerable to European regulations,” explains Koenig. To limit risks, ESMA instituted safety measures last summer, but their effects are yet to be observed.