NewAlpha AM, Invyo and Exton Consulting create a map of French fintechs


p { margin-bottom: 0.1in; line-height: 115%; } The investment company for entrepreneurial finance projects NewAlpha Asset Management, the startup Inyo and the consultant Exton Consulting have combined their expertise and skills to offer a map of French fintechs and entrepreneurials known as of the end of December 2017. “With nearly 300 fintechs analysed [285, to be more exact -ed], this map is the most complete done to date of the French market. These companies are having an impact in the banking, insurance and asset management professions, by offering new financial products, or transversal services which make it possible for the financial industry to optimise management and sale processes,” a statement says. The map created by the three partners places the firms by domain of activity and seniority. About 46% of companies have a total age of three to five years. The entrepreneurial dynamic remains strong, as 30% of companies identified were created between 2016 and 2017. In the wealth management sector, companies like smartbees, Fundee, Bruno and OneWealthPlace are less than three years old, while TrakInsight, QuantCube and Yomoni have existed for three to five years. Among companies which have been active for more than five years are Marie Quantier, HighWave Capital, Advize, and Fund KIS. “Many significant financing and acquisition operations have been observed in France in the past two years. That is a sign of the preponderant place held by Fintechs within our financial industry. Given the richness of the French ecosystem, we are convinced that this dynamic will continue,” says Lior Derhy, managing partner at NewAlpha AM, in a statement. Invyo, launched in 2017, is a market intelligence platform for fintechs. It offers an SaaS solution which relies on proprietary technologies in big data analysis and natural language processing (NLP) to help financial institutions steer their digital transformation strategy. Exton Consulting, a strategy and management consulting firm founded in 2006, specialises in financial services: insurance, retail banking, cards and payments, CIB & Asset Management.