“We have high ambitions in Italy and Spain”


NewsManagers: How is SimCorp situation in the current context of digital transformation?Emmanuel Colson: We have an essential role to play in this process of digitalisation. Our objective is to harmonize processes and centralise data within one organisation, to improve client experience and facilitate the digital transformation. We are offering a solution centred around holding positions in real time, in all asset classes and multi-standards. All transactions, all positions can thus be relied on heavily in a single tool within the operation, which in the event we call the Investment Book of Record, or IBOR. That is our specificity since our origin.NewsManagers: Is this solution aimed at the asset management sector?Emmanuel Colson: It is. SimCorp is a Danish company founded in 1971, which first developed an accounting back-office solution for the asset management industry. More precisely, asset managers, asset owners such as insurers, and then asset servicers such as fund administrators or custodians. The other major characteristic of SimCorp is that the firm is developing and is continuing to develop largely through organic growth, and not through organic growth. Each year, we invest 20% of our earnings in research and development. In our profession, few businesses dedicate such a high percentage to research and development.NewsManagers: What does that activity represent?Emmanuel Colson: Concretely, one third of our personnel – we have slightly over 1,500 employess globally – are developers, business analysts. That is our mark of pride. And we have two major locations for this research and development activity: Copenhagen, Denmark, and Kiev, Ukraine. For all of our activities, we are in all regions of the world, from the United States to Australia. We have slightly over 20 offices in total.NewsManagers: What is the place of Paris in the organisation?Emmanuel Colson: We have seen strong growth in the past five years. We had 14 people in 2013 and now, the Paris office, which I have led since 2013, has 75 employees. We have grown in terms of personnel but we have also extended our geographical coverage from Paris. In addition to the French market, we have also managed Spain and Italy since last year. Our strategy is that we develop in a new market once we have signed up with a major player in this market.NewsManagers: Who are the major players?Emmanuel Colson: In Spain, we signed up with VidaCaixa, and we are in the process of signing another contract, which I cannot tell you about more precisely yet. In Italy, we have signed with the Generali group. Thus, you see, significant entry points can expected to help us in our developent in these two countries. I say often that our best salespeople are satisfied customers.NewsManagers: And the Paris office?…Read the rest of the interview on the French version of the NewsManagers website