“MiFID II is driving distributors to prefer ETFs”


p { margin-bottom: 0.1in; line-height: 115%; }a:link { } NewsManagers: Isabelle Bourcier, you are head of quantitative and index-based activities, since November 2017, aththe new MAQS unit, for multi-asset, quantitative and solutions. How does this new structure look? Isabelle Bourcier: The creation of MAQS is one of the initiatives launched in 2017 by BNPP AM to simplify its organisation and increase legibility for clients. With this in mind, we have been grouped together by the areas of management expertise which already existed at BNPP AM: THEAM, which we are part of, CamGestion and the Multi-Asset Solutions team. Our product range has been extended and our clients now have access to a single point of access for all of our expertise in multi-asset, quantitative and solutions. NewsManagers: What is the place of index-based management in this grouping? Isabelle Bourcier: Index-based activity, which had originally been part of the Sigma department of BNP Paribas Asset Management, is a historic activity which dates back to the early 1990s. But in 2005, BNPP AM entered the ETF market. We have developed a product range over the past few years which foregrounds specialist themes such as publicly-traded real estate ETFs, or low-carbon ETFs, for example. So we have, and have always had, status as a specialist producer. In 2015, BNP Paribas Asset Management decided to accelerate its growth in ETFs and index-based management, and made me responsible for continuing this mission in 2016. The restructuring of the product range was then already begun, and we then made key recruitments in marketing and sales positions in particular, as well as new developments in smart beta and SRI. NewsManagers: What is the size of this activity? Isabelle Bourcier: The index-based activity represents assets of EUR19.5bn as of the end of December 2017, with about EUR8bn in ETFs alone. And our place in the European rankings for the sector are constantly on the rise. For the more globl range of index-based solutions, we have actively developed funds and index-based mandates dedicated to institutional investors. This represents a strong factor differentiating us from our competitors. Read on in the French version of www.newsmanagers.com