“Uniting the French and German teams has a positive impact on our sales” - Oddo BHF AM


NewsManagers : How did 2017 go for Oddo BHF AM?Nicolas Chaput: 2017 was a very good year. Net inflows to open-ended funds was the best it has been for more than 10 years. It totalled EUR2bn. It was particularly dynamic in France and Italy, while activities were stable in Germany. As of the end of 2017, we have over EUR60bn in assets under management.NM : How do you explain this good result?Nicolas Chaput: These inflows are the result of synergies we realized between France and Germany, which resulted in cross-sales of funds.As a result, the best-selling fund last year throughout Europe is managed in Düsseldorf. This is Oddo BHF Euro Credit Short Duration, a credit fund, which took in over EUR700m. It has been selling everywhere: in Germany, and also in France, Italy, in the countries of Northern Europe, and Spain… It is a perfect example of appropriation by our entire sales force of a “new” asset management offering.The second best-seller is the horizon fund Oddo BHF Haut Rendement 2023, managed in France, which has also been sold throughout Europe.Our European equity range has also sold very well in 2017. Our Active Small Cap fund has been virtually closed after being sold very actively throughout Europe. The Génération fund and our Avenir range have also been very successful.Less than two years after the first phase in the integration of our Düsseldorf teams, the merger between the French and German teams has had a positive impact on our sales. We are very pleased to have achieved this objective, and concretely shown our clients and employees that working together has created the third-largest independent player in continental Europe, and that it works.The second element of success is that we have managed to become a major institutional player thanks to our acquisitions in Germany. 70% of our assets are now managed for institutional investors, and 30% for distribution. Before our acquisitions in Germany, the distribution was closer to 50/50. This positioning has allowed us to build our presence serving institutionals in the Middle East and Northern Europe.We now have a positioning that allows us to take an additional step in terms of growth and to develop in new client bases and markets. For example, we have won a major institutional mandate in Denmark, which could not have happened before.What makes the difference for clients?Nicolas Chaput: Firstly, we are now present in all three major asset classes: equities, bonds, and diversified management. For each one, we have critical size, which allows us to focus on all types of clients: retail clients, IFAs, sovereign funds.Then, we have products with excellent performance in all three areas. Before the acquisitions in Germany, Oddo AM was mostly specialised in fundamental equities in France. With Düsseldorf, we have integrated a long track record and quality performance in bonds, particularly corporate bonds. With Frankfurt, we have acquired a track record and strong competence in diversified management. Germany has brought us the capacity to do quantitative management of large caps, which is complementary to our stock-picking management for small and midcaps.Lastly, we have acquired a real European identity, being based in the two largest economies of the euro zone, with three management centres: Paris, Düsseldorf and Frankfurt.NM : Are you going to retain your management centres, particularly the two sites in Germany?…Read the rest of the interview in the French version of NewsManagers.