Inocap Gestion launches a new application


p { margin-bottom: 0.1in; line-height: 115%; } Inocap Gestion, with assets under management totalling over EUR600m, on 8 March announced the launch of Waren, presented as “the first mobile digital solution for asset management in France,” for B-to-B and B-to-C use. The solution is being launched in partnership with Generali Patrimoine. “The workflow at the company is becoming increasingly diffuse. The tool developed in the past few months aimed first to provide information, all information about the company and its products in real time to the entire team,” explains Olivier Bourdelas, chairman and founder of Inocap Gestion, at a press conference. “But we wanted to go further,” he added. Inocap Gestion would like to federate user communities, who may receive key information to their smartphones. “Inspired by best practices on social networks, Waren provides a way to quickly and autonomously create alerts for information feeds about companies, funds, managers and collaborators who assist with investments,” says Bourdelas. Users can see inflows and outflows to a fund with a 20-day post date, reporting, and net asset value. Generali has been supporting this initiative for several weeks. “In light of MiFID 2, IDD, PRIIPS and client experience challenges, this solution will transform periodical information documents, which are now frozen in time, to make them living, personalisable and ongoing feeds,” says Sonia Fendler, a member of the executive board at Generali France, responsible for wealth management clients. Waren, developed over the past seven to eight months, as it now stands represents a first version, which does not yet cover all operating systems. An improved version is already in preparation, which will be compatible with Android, and which will be capable of video. It may become available in the next two to three months. However, Bourdelas does not plan to change professions. “We are asset management professionals, and asset management remains our priority,” he concludes. Inocap Gestion has also won a mandate for about EUR200m from the Norwegian sovereign fund (NewsManagers of 1 March 2018).