“We have decided to charge our clients for research costs”


NewsManagers: Why has La Banque Postale Asset Management (LBPAM) decided to create a research department?Iain Bremner: It is not completely by chance, since this creation comes at the same time as the MiFID II directive comes into effect. The creation responds to several challenges. Firstly, last year, we studied the expectations and increased research needs as part of generating our investment ideas. We experimented in 2017 with the credit analysis part, since we had increased our personnel considerably. We had a team of two credit analysts, and we recruited three more people to meet some needs. Several clients have also asked us as part of their regulatory adaptations to be more reactive and more conclusive in terms of qualification of our investments. This is true both for credit and for equities. We have also initiated several projects with an eye to commercial development, which will be rolled out during 2018, and for which dedicated research teams will be indispensable. So we have added to the credit analysis team and we are going to develop the organisation for equity analysis, while retaining a hybrid manager-analyst model.NewsManagers: Can you tell us about this hybrid model?Iain Bremner: We are recruiting fully dedicated analysts. But we remain in line with our previous model of manager-analysts. So we have a model in which both managers and analysts produce research and analysis, study issuers for the credit part, and companies for the equity part. We have also decided to create this department because we felt a need to get the various research teams to work better together. We previously had two strategists, with Hervé Goulletquer and Stéphane Déo. We also have a credit team, which we have recently added to, and which now has five people organised by sectors of activity, with three people for non-financial, and two for financial sectors. This analysis team is responsible for the more high-risk issuers, including high yield and unrated issuers, while investment grade issuers are monitored by manager-analysts, since the risk level is under better control. Lastly, we have a team of five quantitative analysts organised by investment process.NewsManagers: What is the role of this quantitative analysis team?Iain Bremner: It is a team which is less well-known outside the company. But these five analysts are completely integrated into the management process, in constant and direct contact with the managers, and they are responsible for assisting the managers with some missions, such as assisting to construct the portfolio, and monitoring portfolio risk parameters (volatility, VaR, tracking error, etc). So they work in close collaboration with the managers, to ensure that portfolio construction processes and systems are used correctly and that risks are monitored correctly. These analysts also construct models for these managers which allow them to generate signals to support investment decisions.NewsManagers: What about equity analysis?Iain Bremner: We are going to construct an equity analysis team, as we have done for credit. At this stage, equity analysis is the responsibility of manager-analysts only. This team will be added to with a team of two or three analysts, who will assist managers and manager-analysts to cover the equity universe. This will come completely from external research, which we will continue to use actively, in sensitive cases or specific sectors, assisting manager-analysts.…Read the rest of the intervew in the French version of NewsManagers