New departure from equity management team at Amundi


There has been a new appointment at Amundi, and a new departure. The French asset management firm yesterday announced that Cristina Matti has been appointed as head of European small & mid cap equities and country strategies. According to information obtained by NewsManagers, the appointment follows the departure of Caroline Gauthier, who is had been sharing the position with Matti since the merger with Pioneer. Gauthier is expected to join La Financière de l’Echiquier, NewsManagers has learnt.The French group thus faces a new exit from equity management, following that of Romain Boscher, co-head of European equity management. “The departures are very often Amundi veterans who have had to share their responsibilities since the merger with Pioneer,” says a source at the group, who suggests that other departures may be coming soon in equity and diversified management. Although the Italian group is smaller in asset volume, the control that it is reported to have been given over the organisation, strategy and management committees is said to have triggered discontent among some former Amundi employees.Most of the managers concerned have accepted voluntary retirement plans to negotiate their exits. With the merger, about 134 positions are expected to be eliminated in France. The group is reported to have announced a departure plan which would affect a total of 500 positions worldwide. But in the management activity, it has been meanwhile decided to set up expsrt centres, which will cost Paris its central position in the group for some of these areas. European equity management is now led by Fabio Franzin, who is based in Ireland. According to information obtained by NewsManagers, 400 requests for voluntary retirement are said to have been made in France alone. “But the group is not satisfied, since there were not enough applications on the management side. The ones who want to leave this activity are mostly welcome anyway, with a few exceptions,” the source says.The departure plan being negotiated is reported to be attractive. It offers up to 27 months of salary, or one paid year of salary in cases of business creation. But talks are often bitter, one witness says: some heads who want to leave are said to have had stock options when Amundi was launched on the stock market, which had to be held for at least three years before being exercised. Meanwhile, to retain the best managers at Pioneer, Amundi is reported to have agreed in the merger deal to pay guaranteed bonuses for two years.In a recent interview with Financial News, Yves Perrier, CEO, does not conceal the fact that he “chose the teams that had the best performance over the past four years, and as a result, we are offering voluntary departure to the others.”