Deutsche Bank plans to launch DWS on stock market as soon as possible


Deutsche Bank on 26 February confirmed that it is planning to hold an initial public offering on the Frankfurt stock exchange of its activities at DWS, but has not given a date. The German banking group is planning to hold the operation as soon as possible, taking market conditions into account. Sources cited by Reuters said last week that Deutsche Bank was planning to list 25% of capital in DWS, and hopes thereby to raise EUR1.5bn to EUR2bn. A statement from Deutsche Bank says only that the initial public offering would consist only of a sale of existing shares controlled indirectly by Deutsche Bank. In other words, the operation will not result in an issue of new shares.The German group had in March last year announced its plans to list a minority stake in DWS as part of an overhaul of its structure. The German banking group points out in a statement that DWS, whose assets under management total about EUR700bn, is structured as a KGaA corporation, which allows the parent to retain control of its affiliate, even if its stake falls below 75% of capital, ensuring that it will generally control the German company.In the mid-term, DWS is aiming for annual net inflows of 2% to 5% of assets, a profit margin on management fees equal to or greater than 30 basis points, a cost/income ratio below 65%, and a total dividend distribution ratio fo between 65% and 75% of net profits. “These plans for an initial public offering will give us a way to unleash all the potential in DWS for clients and employees, while aiming for attractive returns for our shareholders. We are very proud to be one of the largest shareholders by assets in Europe and worldwide. We are pleased to bring our robust and international investment platform to public markets, as well as 60 years of investment experience,” says Nicolas Moreau, CEO of DWS, in a statement.Deutsche Bank is the global coordinator and bookrunner for the operation, while Barclays, Citi, Credit Suisse, BNP Paribas, ING, Morgan Stanley, UBS and UniCredt are associated market makers. Commerzbank, Daiwa, Banca IMI, Nordea and Santander are co-lead banks.