Béatrice Guedj joins Swiss Life REIM (France)


p { margin-bottom: 0.1in; line-height: 115%; } Swiss Life REIM (France) on 24 January announced that it is scaling up its research unit, with the arrival of Béatrice Guedj as director of research and innovation. Guedj will report to Fabrice Lombardo, director of Business Development and portfolio management, and will work to develop multi-sector research throughout Europe. This quantitative research will support the development of Swiss Life REIM (France) throughout the investment area of Swiss Life Asset Managers (France): Belgium, Luxembourg, Spain, Portugal, Italy. It will help to better identify the strategies that unite performance and new needs, a statement explains. “This recruitment aims to strengthen our research capacities in all asset classes. Developing innovative research, in the era of data, is a part of our constantly proactive vision of anticipating needs, which has been the source of our strength since our origins. I have confidence in Béatrice to help us develop the real estate investment of tomorrow in our markets. Providing fundamental analysis of the drivers of performance in the mid- to long-term for real estate is in line with the approach of our investors, and is a key to strategically positioning Swiss Life REIM (France) at all points in the real estate cycle,” says Frédéric Bôl, chairman of the board at Swiss Life REIM (France). Guedj, currently director of research and studies at the Institut de l’Epargne Immobilière et Foncière (IEIF), will become a senior advisor. Guedj “has contributed a lot to the Institut, particularly to develop its innovative approaches to commerce and the consequences of urbanisation. By becoming senior advisor, she will continue to bring the benefits of her abilities and analysis to the IEIF. With this addition to its team of senior advisors, the IEIF continues its development of high-level research at the intersection of economics, finance and real estate,” says Chrisentlytian de Kerangal, CEO of the IEIF. Guedj has over 16 years of experience in the economic research sector applied to real estate in Europe. She was director of research and strategy for GrosvenorFund Management from 2004 to 2016, and was responsible for modelling the construction and real estate sectors at Rexecode from 2000 to 2003. Guedj holds a doctorate in economic mathematics from the Centre de recherche en économie et statistique at ENSAE, and a degree from ENS Paris-Saclay: her thesis was about the spatial economy, the geographical economy and urban dynamics, with intermittent shocks. She is a member of the steering committee of the Urban Land Institute (ULI) France, a member of the Finance Innovation committee for the prop-tech part of the innovation unit of Paris Europlace, a member of the Société d’Economie Politique and a member of the Cercle des Femmes de l’Immobilier.