ESG, real assets and international assets core to strategy at Aviva Investors France


Inès de Dinechin at Aviva Investors France, the euro management expert unit of Aviva Investors, has been resolutely following the transformation strategy engaged in since 2017. “We are in continuity with the strategy implemented over the past two years, with the priorities being ESG, real assets, international development solutions,” the chairman of the board at Aviva Investors France announced on 18 April at a press conference. For the ESG portion, the group, which has about €386bn in assets under management, already has a strong presence in governance issues, and participated in nearly 17,000 general shareholders’ meetings last year, representing 98% of stocks in the portfolio. The firm is now deploying an integrated ESG approach, so that all managers will now have access to the analysis tools of the group. Aviva Investors France also last year created a dedicated team of three people to operate the approach, which has been developed by 40 employees at the group. Aviva Investors France is in a phase of deployment for the strategy in all asset classes, with an objective of €12bn invested under the SRI label in 10 funds, compared with seven labelled funds with €3.2bn in assets as of the end of 2018. “We aim to become one of the main players in socially responsible investment in the French market, and the label represents a major step in that process,” says Denis Lehman, CEO of Aviva Investors France. The firm will also offer several socially responsible products in the coming months, including a thematic fund dedicated to the energy transition, based on the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), and a green fund. Beyond its participation in general shareholders’ meetings, Aviva Investors France intends to become a more visible activist manager, and to take its business model beyond traditional management, to offer associated services, and to direct client savings into impact strategies, so as to influence market participants to develop regulations and practices in the industry. In real assets, the unit now includes private debt and real estate, as a French arm of the real assets unit at the group founded last autumn. It aims to become a “pan-European leader” in the sector. With this in mind, John Dewey, head of real assets and solutions, is planning to release several new products, including new funds investing in physical real estate, such as a green OPCI vehicle. There are also plans to create a corporate private debt fund to specialise in small and midcaps. The infrastructure fund has held its second closing with €210m, and is planning a final closing later this year. The infrastructure strategy may also get involved in special mandates which may represent several hundred million euros, says Dewey, adding that the activity in mandate form can be expected to grow in light of the appetite institutionals are showing for real assets. Unlike real assets, the development of international activities is nearly entirely new. Last year, net inflows (excluding money markets), which totalled €1bn, were 50% international. Out of assets of €109bn in assets management and distributed by Aviva Investors France as of the end of March, €3bn came from international sources, with about €1bn coming from Benelux, €1bn from Italy and Germany, and €1bn from the United Kingdom. International deployment covers nearly all of continental Europe in all asset classes. In this context, the affiliate of the British insurance group has a goal for 2019 to bring in €2.9bn in inflows. “We are more or less in line with this goal, and we are observing an acceleration in demand from foreign clients,” says Inès de Dinechin. In terms of personnel, “we are in a phase of consolidation, following growth of about 25% between 2016 and 2018,” says de Dinechin. Personnel, now totalling 140, may grow to about 150 this year due to the planned integration of Airef into the real assets unit, with 12 personnel and assets of €5bn.