Julius Baer not afraid of Pictet, Bernhard Hodler claims


Boris Collardi and several teams from Julius Baer moving to Pictet does not worry Bernhard Hodler, CEO of the wealth management firm based in Zurich. “We respect Pictet, it’s a good company and a good brand, but we are not afraid of them,”Julius Baer chief says in an interview with Le Temps. Collardi, a renowned banker, left his position as head of the Zurich-based group in November 2017 as head of the Zurich-based group, and in June 2018 joined the Geneva-based bank Pictet. The two firms are now competing for third place in the Swiss wealth management industry, in the shadow of the two giants UBS and Credit Suisse. A few months after the arrival of Collardi, now a managing partner, Pictet recruited a management team from Julius Baer specialised in the Middle East. “This is not a problem. Last year, we increased the number of managers at our firm to about 100,” says Hodler. Pictet is now pursuing a recruitment policy which is closer to that of Julius Baer, says Hodler. “It’s up to us to ensure that our employees are happy with us.” At the end of 2018, Julius Baer had assets under management of CHF382bn for private clients alone. Pictet had CHF496bn, about half of it in institutional management. The Zurich-based wealth management firm in February announced a restructuring programme which aimed to lay off 140 employees. After a period of strong growth in the past 15 years, Julius Baer will concentrate on a smaller number of markets in 17 priority countries. Hodler says the growth of the bank’s activities has not been at the expense of prudence. “Our standards for accepting clients are on the same level as our competitors, if not higher,” the former director of risk at Julius Baer said before taking over at the group. “The idea that we could have accepted clients who do not meet these standards is false,” he says. Since last week, Julius Baer is no longer part of the Swiss Market Index (SMI), the leading index of the Swiss stock market. The Zurich bank was displaced by Alcon, a spinoff of Novartis. Hodler points out that this adjustment is based on size and not quality criteria. “Our inclusion in the SMI Mid Cap index, which includes the 20 largest Swiss companies below the SMI index, will make our company a heavyweight in that major stock market index for investors,” the Julius Baer head says.