“It’s time to write a new chapter in the history of Richelieu Gestion”


NewsManagers: What drove you personally to join the Richelieu Gestion project? Christophe Boulanger: It’s time to write a new chapter in the history of this great firm. Richelieu Finance was a great player in independent management in the years 1990-2000. Then it had a less visible phase. Now, we have the opportunity to move back into the limelight, with a brand, assets, French and international clients, and a company which isn’t dedicated solely to serving the bank. The idea is to create a project on this existing basis with ambitions. It’s a challenge and it’s inspiring. NewsManagers: How does the redeployment of the activity derive from the new shareholder structure? Christophe Boulanger: It takes several forms, and involves the organisation, management and development. In terms of organisation, first of all, after my arrival, Laurence Adam joined us in November to deploy an IT and services platform. In early January, Michel Dinet took over as head of the sales team. More recently, Alexandre Hezez joined the team as director of financial management at Richelieu Gestion, and as allocation strategist for the entire Compagnie Financière Richelieu group. Richelieu Gestion is the centre of expertise in market strategy for the whole group, which is composed of two private banks (France and Monaco) and one asset management firm (Richelieu Gestion). Other people, including managers, will join in the coming weeks to contribute expertise and add to the cohesion at the group. Our common goal is to build a team that unites employees who have been working at the firm for several years and to extend its history to new participants who bring the richness of their careers and their market visions. Eventually, the team will tally 20 people, including a significant proportion of new arrivals. NewsManagers: How are you going to reorganise management? Christophe Boulanger: In terms of management, we inherit a personnel which is centred on European equities, particularly small and midcaps. The former owner of Richelieu Gestion had several management centres, and France concentrated its expertise in this asset class. So there are high quality funds in European small and midcaps, which is a positive thing. But as an autonomous asset management firm, we want to meet the expectations of clients over a wider spectrum. So we are in the process of reorganising and repositioning the existing range, and enriching it with new expertise. NewsManagers: What is the existing range, and how will it evolve? Christophe Boulanger: We currently have eight funds, including five in French and European equities, one bond fund, and one diversified fund. Our idea is to reposition the European equity portion, to give it more relevance and impact for clients, while retaining our strengths in small caps and family stocks. Funds will be merged, and market positions will be clarified. The idea is to have an asset management offering which is identifiable. The repositioning will be complete by the end of second quarter. Beyond that, we want to develop in equities outside Europe, meaning in international equities and global cross-border themes. The correlation of the markets observed in 2018 confirms the need for products or expertise which are focused both on Europe and on the United States. Further, we have international clients through our sister company Banque Richelieu Monaco, who do not have an absolute need to to be invested only in the eurozone. So we want to have an expertise in international equities, which will probably result in the recruitment of a manager, or two. We hope to complete this process in the coming months. NewsManagers: Is the same true of bonds and diversified management? Christophe Boulanger: As far as bonds go, we mainly have an expertise in short-term interest rates, with certain ratings. We would like to offer longer-term products, including horizon funds and opportunistic funds. Our little diversified fund will be used as a basis to create an expertise in allocation, which we want to develop, which will be managed by Alexandre Hezez. For the needs of private clients at the two banks, and potentially for external clients, we envision partnerships in assets classes which we would not naturally be developing internally in the short term. I am thinking of real estate products in particular. That may take several forms: outsourced funds, or exclusive or highly targeted distribution agreements. NewsManagers: What are your assets, and what is the distribution between internal and external clients? Christophe Boulanger: We have €460m in assets under management at the firm. Adding outsourced management by third parties, we have about €580m. As of 30 June, we will have integrated mandatemanagement at Banque Richelieu France into the asset management firm. The goal is to create a unified management unit, while retaining the specificities of each management area (collective and mandated). We would then have about €950m in assets. About one third of the current assets are managed for internal clients, and two thirds for external clients. NewsManagers: What are your goals? Christophe Boulanger: For collective management, our objective is to triple assets in three years, to €1.4bn. Of course, we will also have ambitions for mandatemanagement, once that is integrated, since our objective is to make that activity a vector for external growth. NewsManagers: Philippe de Fontaine Vive, the CEO of Compagnie Financière Richelieu, is talking about acquisitions. Could that be inasset management? Christophe Boulanger: Yes, why not? We are working to grow organically. But we know that we are in a changing sector, which can create attractive opportunities. We are open to this type of development.