Brussels worried by growth of asset management firms


Although Brexit and commercial tensions are dominating the news, European Union leaders are warning against another potential risk to the region and the global economy more generally: the growing size of new systemic financial players who are so far not highly regulated. The development of rules for the functioning of financial markets and investment strategies has favoured the emergence of new financial giants in the past few years, including the settlement and clearing-house LCH, based in London, and asset managers such as the US firm BlackRock. Some EU leaders claim the growth of these players has not brought with it a concomitant strengthening of regulations, which causes risks to financial stability. In separate documents obtained by Reuters, the EU points to a need for new rules to reduce these risks. One such document from the Romanian EU presidency, calls a meeting of finance ministers, which will be held at the end of this week in Bucharest, and proposes to study measures to prevent potential dangers to financial stability due to the asset management sector and settlement and clearing houses. These dangers are also cited in a document from the European Systemic Risk Board (ESRB), led by Mario Draghi, chairman of the European Central Bank (ECB). The confidential document, which is to be presented in Bucharest, lists risks to financial stability, including shadow banking, an area which includes asset managers and investment funds. Commercial tensions and Brexit are at the top of this list, and these phenomena also imply risks related to bank fiancing and debt. The major causes for concerns over shadow banking are its size and the complexity of these under-regulated activities, the level of leverage in some funds, the low level of risk monitoring, and the lack of transparency. BlackRock, the top player in fund management, manages about $6trn (€5.33trn), which makes it a player larger than some international banks. Despite its size, it is subject to less strict regulatory constraints and supervision than is applied to the banking sector. EU countries are expected to express concerns about this subject at a meeting of G20 finance ministers in Washington on 11 and 12 April, and to call on its partners to respond, if necessary, to “emerging financial vulnerabilities” related to these financial actors.