Four out of five millennials are interested in sustainable products or SRI, a survey says


Millennials – those persons born between 1980 and 2000 – are convinced that sustainable investment is a necessity. This is what a survey found on millennials’ attitudes to responsible investment. The survey was conducted of 540 persons, 79% of whom were millennials and 56% of whom were based in the UK, during summer 2018 by Kepler Cheuvreux, a consultant, for First State Investments, an Australian asset manager. Asked about the small sample size, Sudip Hazra, head of sustainable research and responsible investment at Kepler Cheuvreux, replied that there were enough similarities in the responses from the 540 participants to suggest that the results would have been much the same with a larger number of respondents. Among the survey’s findings, First State Investments and Kepler Cheuvreux found that 57% of millennials believe that applying environmental, social and governance criteria can boost long-term returns. Half of the millennial respondents believe that SRI returns are lower, and 46% of them believethat SRI charges higher management fees. More than 80% of millennials surveyed (81%) said they were interested or very interested in sustainable or socially responsible products. Respondents also want more information on these products. And 78% of millennial respondents would choose an asset manager for its SRI skills. “Millennials don’t need to be convinced of how important sustainable investment is. That’s how they differ from older generations”, said Will Oulton, global head of SRI at First State Investments, after presenting the survey’s findings to the media. Oulton believes that greater clarity is needed on what constitutes sustainable business or not. He therefore has high hopes on the future European commission’s action plan on sustainable financefor distinguishing activities that are green/sustainable from those that are not. He believes this should even “help stop greenwashing”. A European SRI label is “needed” Oulton, the SRI head, believes that Article 173 of the French energy transition law – which requires French institutionals to disclose their carbon footprint – is a success than such legislation could soon emerge on a European scale. Oulton believes other initiatives are lending greater clarity to sustainable investment funds. MiFID II, for example, is encouraging financial investment advisors to ask their retail investors for their SRI preferences. SRI labels in Europe are another.Oulton assesses a standard European SRI label is necessary to complement local labels. Such an SRI label could be handed out by an institution such as Eurosif, the Australian manager sustainable investment head said. First State Investments sees lots of potential in the Sustainable Development Goals, but is focusing on just six of them. It possesses no methodology to assess the impact ofits funds. But in an attempt to do so, the fund manager is partnering with the Institute for Sustainability Leadership of Cambridge University. Oulton expects investor demand to increase for such corporate disclosures and, perhaps, a future regulation. The Australian asset manager has so far excluded only one sector – makers of cluster bombs and anti-personnel mines. A task force is looking into tobacco. As for coal, Oulton says that First State Investments has no exposure to companies involved directly in coalmining but that it carries minor indirect exposure through utilities companies. A new era in France On the French market, Eva Von Sydow, head of sales at First State Investments in Europe, has seen a shift in SRI attitudes over the past two years. “Ten or 15 years ago, we had clients who were looking for a sustainable fund, but showed no interest in what was inside the product and little interest in receiving fund reports. Nowadays, we fill out SRI due diligence questionnaires with questions on how to engage companies, a list of those we have met with, and how we voted at AGMs of companies invested in by First State Investments. If we have not convinced the companies to change after six months, we consider closing out our position. … Many clients, particularly from Nordic countries, have a blacklist of 50 to 100 companies that they don’t want in their portfolios”, she said. As of the end of December 2018, First State Investments had $143.8bn in assets under management.