Julius Baer opens new office in Barcelona


Julius Baer announced the opening of a new office in Barcelona. «The opening of the second office is yet another sign of Julius Baer’s commitment to the Spanish market», said a press release. Julius Baer has been present with an office in Madrid since 2013. Carlos Recoder, Head Western Europe, said: “The opening of the new office in Barcelona responds to our growth plan in Spain, one of our core markets. We have identified a lot of potential for our business acquisition; hence, we allocate significant resources and a comprehensive service offering to meet the demands of our clients in the area. We are one of the leaders in the sector, specialising in providing a pure and sophisticated wealth management service.” For the new office in Barcelona, four senior relationship managers have been hired: José Ángel Oliver, has more than 30 years of experience in different entities specialised in wealth management, such as Banif (Santander Private Banking), Lloyds, Citi and UBS. Oliver holds an MBA from ESADE in Barcelona and a master’s degree in finance and stock exchange from the University of Barcelona. Roberto Murgui started his career at Lloyds Bank more than 30 years ago. Before joining UBS in 2001, he worked at Citibank Private in Barcelona. He holds a degree in finance from CUNEF. Josep Rocadembosch has more than 20 years of experience in the private banking sector in Spain, where he worked in different companies such as Sabadell or BANIF before joining UBS in 2008. Rocadembosch holds a degree in economics and business studies from the University of Barcelona. Furthermore he holds a master’s degree in management sciences from the Université de Valenciennes et du Hainaut-Cambrésis in France and a master’s degree in international finance and taxation from the Université de Lille. Carlos Vítores has more than 13 years of experience as a private banker at Credit Suisse. He holds a degree in business management and administration from the University of Barcelona. Including the new hires, Julius Baer employs more than 60 professionals in the country. The Bank plans to continue incorporating new private bankers in the coming months due to the strong growth it is obtaining in Spain.