Eurizon Capital puts emphasis on governance


When Cristina Ungureanu was named head of corporate governance at Eurizon Capital, the asset management affiliate of Intesa Sanpaolo, in 2015, she became the first person to hold such a position at an Italian asset management firm. “After us, others followed, and now there is growing attention to this area,” she explains in an interview with NewsManagers. Her duties cover all areas relating to governance (voting at general shareholders’ meetings, shareholder engagement, appointment of directors, etc.), but her role is intimately related to that of Gianluca Manca, head of sustainable development at Eurizon, who joined late in 1999. Since her arrival, the specialist in international corporate governance has helped to extend and systematise the general shareholders’ meeting voting and shareholder engagement policy at Eurizon. Since 2017, environmental, social and governance criteria have been integrated into the investment process for all actively-managed funds. For voting at general shareholders’ meetings, Eurizon selects companies as a priority at which it holds a large stake. The asset management firm also concentrates on shareholders’ meetings where there is a challenge relating to protecting and supporting the interests of minority stakeholders. Shareholders’ meetings concerning one-time operations are also privileged. A unique Italian mechanism In Italy, Eurizon is particularly involved in the appointment of directors to represent minority shareholders, a specific Italian practice introduced a few years ago. This mechanism allows minority shareholders in Italian businesses to collectively present a candidate list for the board of directors and college of account commisioners. “This law was born out of a need to protect the interests of minority shareholders in an Italian system which is characterised by a controlling shareholder style. The growing attention to governance has had a positive impact both on investors and on the companies themselves, as it promotes the development of a more inclusive approach oriented to the long term,” Ungureanu explains. Every three years, minority shareholders are permitted to present a list of one or more candidates as independent directors. At some companies, it is possible to appoint up to five independent directors. “This is a unique and very effective system,” says Ungureanu, who in the past has worked in South Africa and the United Kingdom. “The activity is coordinated by Assogestioni, the Italian association of asset management professionals. Ans we are assisted by an international headhunter to find and select the best candidates,” she adds. “Then, via shareholder engagement, we monitor the activities of these members.” Last year, Eurizon contributed to the selection of 46 directors. In 2019, Ungureanu plans to add to her team, strengthen collaboration with management teams, further extend the universe for engagement and voting at general shareholders’ meetings, to scale up engagement activities, and in particular to increase collective actions to make Eurizon’s voice more widely heard.