European equity funds big losers in first quarter


The last week of March served to confirm a trend. Equities were the big losers in first quarter, particularly European equities. In the week ending on 27 March, funds dedicated to European equities posted substantial further net outflows of $4.8bn, according to a weekly study by Bank of America Merrill Lynch. For first quarter overall, investors sold more than $39bn in European equities, analysts at Bank of America Merrill Lynch report, based on data from the global flow evolution monitoring specialist EPFR Global. US equity funds were not an exception, and faced significant outflows of $7.7bn last week, and $37.6bn for the quarter. Many asset management firms are still touting the merits of investment in emerging markets, but inflows still show that for several weeks the emerging market universe has been losing ground, especially in equities. Funds specialised in emerging market equities finished last week with net outflows of $2bn, the fifth week in negative territory out of the past six weeks. Japanese equity funds alone did well, with net inflows of $1.3bn. Overall, equity funds in all geographical regions combined posted net ouflows of $12.5bn. However, bonds were the big winners in first quarter. Investment grade (IG) bonds attracted nearly $35bn in the first three months of the year, while emerging markets attracted $21.5bn, and high yield bonds drew in $15bn. In the week to 27 March, IG bond funds attracted over $5bn, emerging market debt funds $2.2bn, and high yield bond funds just under $1bn. In total, bond funds in all categories combined show a twelfth consecutive week of positive net inflows, totalling $8.6bn. Inflation-linked bond funds are no longer attracting any assets at all, and show record outflows for the week, totalling $1.3bn. Analysts at BofA Merrill Lynch also predict “secular stagnation” and “deflation” in second quarter. They point out that flows to deflationary assets such as corporate bonds, emerging market bonds and REITs have totalled $87bn since the start of the year.