Edmond de Rothschild AM to extend SRI product range


Edmond de Rothschild Asset Management, which currently has €3.5bn in assets under management as part of a socially responsible investment (SRI) approach, will launch a fund dedicated to climate this year, Jean-Philippe Desmartin, director of repsonsible investment at the asset management firm, announced at a press conference dedicated to the energy transition. The SRI product range currently includes two open funds, EDR Euro Sustainable Growth and EDR Euro Sustainable Credit. These €3.5bn also include Tricolore Rendement, the “flagship for dialogue and engagement,” says Desmartin, as well as SRI mandates, such as €1.5bn managed for the French pension fund Etablissement de retraite additionnelle de la fonction publique (ERAFP). Meanwhile, EdRAM is also in the process of integrating ESG criteria into its fundamental active management, with the ambition of achieving 100% of assets by 2020. At the end of 2017, the firm was at 54%, and that percentage had risen as of the end of 2018, but is still under internal evaluation. The other two 2020 pledges of EdRAM are to evaluate its carbon footprint and ESG and to implement carbon reporting for 100% of its fundamental active management. Pilot phases are in progress this year. EdRAM is also working on climate issues, and on improving reporting to formalise goals for priority funds. Investment in the energy transition and the environment at Edmond de Rothschild also come from private equity and infrastructure investment, including the Pearl and Bridge funds, which have both been awarded the Transition énergétique et écologique pour le climat (TEEC) label. With this in mind, the group will soon close its Pearl fund, which covers environmental infrastructure, with half of its €250m target. Bridge IV, an infrastructure debt fund, will soon be closed, and is expected to reach €500m. The fifth fund will be launched “soon,” says Johnny El Hachem, CEO of Edmond de Rothschild Private Equity. El Hachem has also announced the forthcoming release of a fund dedicated to the hospitality industry, which faces “important environmental challenges.”