Bond managers betting on an end of cycle in one to two years


According to the second annual global study of bond management undertaken by the British asset management firm Invesco, bond investors predict that the economic cycle will continue until late 2019 or late 2020. 49% of investors predict that the cycle will end in one to two years, while over one quarter (27%) are expecting the end of the cycle to come sooner, within the next six to 12 months. The study was based on individual interviews with 145 bond specialists and chief investment officers in the EMEA, North America, and Asia-Pacific regions, representing a total of $14.1trn in assets under management. When wholesale and institutional investors are compared, the former category is more pessimistic with respect to short-term outlooks, with 65% predicting an end of cycle in the next two years. Regionally, the study also finds significant divergence in outlooks for the end of the economic cycle among bond managers. Investors in the Asia-Pacific region estimate that expansion will continue for one or two years, while EMEA region respondents are more optimstic about longevisty beyond that period. In North America, meanwhile, bond investors are more pessimistic, with more than half (52%) predicting that expansion will end in the next 12 months. What factors will trigger the next recession? As far as what will be the trigger for the next recession, respondents are mainly concerned about debt levels, particularly public debt. Investors surveyed estimate that rising interest rates will severely impact interest costs and default rates. Among other possible sources of disturbance, 15% of investors feel that the greatest risk is of a crisis in emerging markets, while 13% predict it will be a debt bubble in China. 60% of investors predict with a high level of certainty that credit spreads will widen in the next three years, while 45% predict that the rate curve will remain flat for a long time yet. Bond managers are relatively unconcerned about risks of rising inflation (34%), and only one quarter of them (27%) predict that the rate curve will invert in the next few years. Allocations to Chinese bonds are up, as investors defy the trade war and geopolitical issues in their quest for returns and diversification. One third of bond investors (32%) are seeking to increase their exposures in China in the next three years, particularly North American investors (58%). Currently, investors in the United States are not hihgly prone to hold Chinese bonds in their portfolios, but they are more likely to increase their allocations in the future, despite rising commercial tensions. “That is a major change for a country which tends to invest primarily in its domestic bond market,” the study finds. Half of investors worldwide (51%) predict that this is a long-term strategic decision which will be accompanied by an expected increase in allocations to China in the major bond indices in 2019 and thereafter. “Although the Chinese bond market is the third-largest in the world, it has long been underweighted, or completely absent from the bond portfolios of professional investors, despite favourable investment considerations such as relative valuation, returns, and expected total returns. The barriers to investment in Chinese bonds appear to be disappearing, which is leading investors to participate in this market,” the authors of the study say.