Primonial to acquire 100% of capital in LFDE


The Primonial group and La Financiere de l’Echiquier (‘LFDE”) announced on the evening of 13 March that they have signed a memorandum of understanding to sell 100% of capital in the LFDE group to Primonial. Primonial had initially acquired a 40% stake in LFDE in March 2018, making it one of the largest shareholders in the firm. As part of the operation, Primonial will acquire the remaining 60% interest in the firm from the two founders and majority shareholders in LFDE, Didier Le Menestrel and Christian Gueugnier, and employees of the firm. The results of the first synergies developed by Primonial and LFDE since 1 March 2018 have led the management at Primonial and the current majority shareholders in LFDE to accelerate the capital sale to Primonial, which had initially been planned for 2020. A statement says that LFDE will open up to new asset classes, and will continue to grow within the Primonial group, which is itself independent. “This powerful position is a sign of the strategic place which LFDE occupies within the Primonial group,” the statement says. “We were won over by our merger, and felt that it was time for us to hand over the operational and capital reins to the Primonial group and its management team. We are pleased with what we have achieved, the fine and humble success which is LFDE. As part of the Primonial group, we know the firm is in good hands to continue its growth strategy throughout Europe,” Le Menestrel and Gueugnier, co-founders of LFDE, say. Le Menestrel adds: “I have full confidence in the management at LFDE. The management team organised around Olivier de Berranger, director of asset management, will continue the conviction-based management that has been the key to the success of LFDE for 28 years.” Stéphane Vidal, chairman of the Primonial group, explains that he “decided to accelerate the timetable for the merger between Primonial and LFDE, in light of the progress of our development plan and the first synergies developed between the two entities. Together, we are ready to take on the challenges of our industry, by strengthening our positions. With ... Le Menestrel and … Gueugnier, since our initial investment, we have shared great ambitions for LFDE in innovation and development. Now that we own 100% of LFDE, the integrated distribution group has an unrivalled capacity to create innovative and lasting new solutions to take on the challenges of the wealth and asset management sector in France and Europe.” He adds: “I offered to let [Le Menestrel] join the Primonial group as Senior Advisor, to participate actively in the development projects at the Group for all of its activities, and he accepted. Christophe Mianné will remain as CEO of LFDE; I am counting on all of the management, sales and support teams to write a new page in the history of this business.” Gueugnier will no longer hold any responsibilities at the firm after the next meeting of the board of directors, to be held in mid-April. The board of directors at LFDE is now chaired by Stéphane Vidal, chairman of the Primonial group. Mianné remains as CEO of LFDE. Le Menestrel is appointed as senior advisor within the Primonial group. It is understood he will also retain an advisory role on LFDE’s flagship fund Echiquier Agressor. The operation has received the full support of the shareholders of Primonial, Bridgepoint and Crédit Mutuel Arkéa, as well as the employee representative bodies at the Primonial group, the group says. The operation remains subject to regulatory approval, particularly by the French financial regulator, the Autorité des Marchés Financiers, and the competition watchdog. The closing of the operation is planned for mid-summer 2019.