HANetf opens doors in France


Following on Italy and the German-speaking countries, HANetf is now preparing to make its debut in France. NewsManagers can report exclusively the firm, a specialist in white label ETFs based in London, is now recruiting a head of sales for the French market, according to Hector McNeil, co-founder and co-CEO of HANetf. HANetf was founded in 2017 by two global ETF personalities, McNeil and Nik Bienkowski, who participated in the creation of companies including ETF Securities, Boost ETP and WisdomTree Europe. This time, the idea is to offer asset management firms a range of services which make it possible for them to quickly launch UCITS ETF funds at low cost. HANetf handles the opeartional, regulatory, distribution and marketing aspects. “We are removing barriers to entry to the ETF market in Europe,” says McNeil. “There are a lot of traditional asset management firms in Europe which are still absent from the ETF market, and there are ETF issuers based in Asia and the United States who want to create a presence in Europe, but who definitely don’t want to make massive investment in creating an ETF asset management firm,” says McNeil. This is the profile of the actors the new firm hopes to target. “We give them access to a very experienced ETF team,” says McNeil. The firm has recruited several professionals from the world of ETFs, most recently including Faisal El-Hakim from Invesco as director of development. “We can issue a fund in 12 weeks,” says McNeil. Two clients, three ETFs So far, HANetf has launched three ETFs with two different partners. The first fund was released in September 2018 on the London Stock Exchange. That product is the EMQQ Emerging Markets and Ecommerce UCITS ETF, from the US-based ETF issuer EMQQ, an affiliate of Big Tree Capital. The ETF, which replicates a product available in the United States, provides exposure to growth in Internet access and online consumer spending in developed markets. The other two ETFs were launched in October 2018 with GinsGlobal Index Funds, another US firm. The products, HAN-GINS Global Innovative Technology UCITS ETF (ITEK) and HAN-GINS Global Cloud Technology UCITS ETF (SKYY), are focused on technology. This is just the beginning. McNeil is planning to create as many as 20 ETFs by the end of the year. “Currently, we are in talks with over 300 asset management firms worldwide, which is far more than we had anticipated when we created our company,” says McNeil. Among these companies are several French asset management firms. “We are seeing a lot of interest from French asset management firms, including quantitative firms which have very sophisticated strategies,” says McNeil. “France will be a key market for us,” he adds. Italy, Germany, and soon France So far, the development of HANetf has been concentrated on the United Kingdom, and then Italy and Germany, where heads of sales have been recruited, and/or ETFs have been listed. But the firm has recently raised a round of capital to finance its development in France and other countries. The company has taken on a new shareholder, ThirdStream Partners, a company founded by former employees of Barclays Global Investors and iShares. They join the other two shareholders: Point72 Ventures, the company of famous American manager Steve Cohen, and Elkstone, a family office based in Ireland. “At HANetf, we predict that in 10-15 years, all new product launches will be ETFs exclusively. Many people think of ETFs as passive, but in the end, it’s just a container,” says McNeil. “I’m on my fourth ETF company, but given the projects we have in the works, I think that HANetf will be the best one,” the director says.