Tabula launches short European high yield ETF


European fixed income ETF provider Tabula Investment Management has launched the Tabula European iTraxx Crossover Credit Short UCITS ETF (“TECS”), offering a passive vehicle as a way to short European sub-investment grade corporate credit while taking on limited interest rate risk. The fund is a directly replicating UCITS ETF giving the ability to buy protectionon high yield credits through Credit Default Swap (CDS) positions in the European iTraxx Crossover index. “Investors often need a liquid tool in order to hedge their exposure to high yield spreads. Derivative positions are highly efficient but not available to many investors. The TECS is a fund which delivers access to this very liquid market in a fully funded, UCITS compliant product which can be traded OTC or on-exchange”, comments Tabula CEO Michael John Lytle. “We strongly believe in making CDS indices more accessible.They were previously only available to a small group of specialised institutional investors.We are making them available in a transparent UCITS ETF, which extends the tool kit for fixed income investors to efficiently manoeuvre in difficult market environments”, explains Lytle. In contrast to most of the inverse products in the market which reset daily, the position notional to NAV is rebalanced monthly, thereby reducing the path dependency particularly in volatile markets. “Focusing on target notional of a strategy rather the daily leverage makes thisa solution better suited totactical positioning rather than day-trading. It therefore matches the needs of the typical institutional investor more closely”, adds Lytle. The Tabula European iTraxx CrossoverCredit Short UCITS ETF tracks the eponymous iTraxx index which has historical data going back for over 10 years. This ETF is the latest addition to the range of fixed income ETFs offered by Tabula. The asset manager plans to further expand its offering, from investment grade and high yield credit to inflation, credit volatility, money markets and broader market exposure.