Amplegest rings in 2019 on a wave of growth


After two years of strong growth, has Amplegest folmade itself a hard act to follow? The last three months of 2018 were especially tough for the asset management firm, which still managed to end the year with a strong growth in its assets and the acquisition of Octo AM last year, which brought an expertise in fixed income. This development has probably contributed to changes in the way Amplegest is perceived by the market. “We are now identified as an independent boutique in asset management,” Arnaud de Langautier, chairman of Amplegest, told NewsManagers on 4 March. At Octo AM, the asset management firm acquired last November, Amplegest is working to restructure its product range, but at least in the short run, it does not seem to need mergers or closures of funds. “We didn’t plan on the way things went sour at the end of last year, leaving Octo AM with a contraction of assets to near €200m at the time of the acquisition, and to about €180m now,” de Langautier says. In this environment, Amplegest will be revising its product range, integrating regulatory changes, especially on money markets, and launching a sales campaign to promote products whose asset levels are too low. “We are going to relaunch the Octo Convictions fund, whose assets have been reduced by a factor of three to about €5m, by transforming it into a horizon fund,” says de Langautier. The first client for the products offered by Octo AM are expected to be in private management where assets now total about €1.2bn, de Langautier says. International activities and external growth More generally, Amplegest, which has had only a limited international presence, will be focusing its efforts on international development from this year, in French-speaking markets such as Switzerland, Belgium, and Monaco. The firm has already identified interest on the part of Spanish and Swiss investors. Amplegest will also be setting out to conquer the IFA market. “We have now completed new listings with life insurance providers, and we can now very logically move on to the IFA market,” de Langautier says.