BNY Mellon IM bolsters sustainable product range


BNY Mellon Investment Management (IM) on Tuesday, 26 February announced the launch of the BNY Mellon Sustainable Global Dynamic Bond Fund. The management of the fund will be outsourced to Newton Investment Management, a specialist investment firm which belongs to the BNY Mellon IM group. The new fund is part of the range from BNY Mellon Global Funds, plc, domiciled in Dublin. BNY Mellon Sustainable Global Dynamic Bond Fund is a dynamic, flexible and actively-managed international bond fund. It invests exclusively in stocks which respect the sustainability criteria at Newton IM. The fund will measure its performance against the money market (EURIBOR 1 month) +2% per year over a five-year period, after fees. It will be managed by Paul Brain, Scott Freedman, Martin Chambers, Trevor Holder and Carl Shepherd. It will invest in a wide range of bond assets, including government bonds, investment grade corporate bonds, high yield corporate bonds, and emerging market sovereign debt. The vehicle becomes the fourth to be launched as part of the sustainable range from Newton IM. It follows the recent launch of three funds: Newton Sustainable Global Equity Fund, Newton Sustainable Real Return Fund and Newton Sustainable Sterling Bond Fund. The three products are part of the BNY Mellon Investment Funds unbrella fund, domiciled in the United Kingdom. “The BNY Mellon Sustainable Global Dynamic Bond Fund allows investors to access bonds which meet sustainability criteria at Newton IM for bond investments. Taking ESG factors into account as part of credit analysis will allow for better risk controlling, which is especially important given the asymmetrical nature of bond performance,” says Anne-Laure Frischlander-Hacobson, CEO of BNY Mellon IM France, in a statement. The new fund is licensed for sale in France, the United Kingdom, Germany, Italy, Spain, Belgium, Austria, Denmark, Switzerland, Norway, Sweden, Finland, the Netherlands, and Luxembourg. It is available to financial intermediaries and institutional investors. Newton IM had €2.9bn in assets under management according to sustainable or ethical principles as of 31 December 2018.