Brexit: final advice from AMF for asset management firms


With 50 days to go until the Brexit date of 29 March 2019, the Autorité des marchés financiers (AMF) is being clear. “Time is passing, and the odds that there will be no deal between the United Kingdom and the European Union are increasing. The profession needs to prepare,” said Benoît de Juvigny, AMF secretary general, at a press conference on 4 February. De Juvigny pointed out that the AMF has been assisting asset management firms to do this for more than one year, whether the firms be British or French. He admitted that the company moves are headed to five major destination countries in Europe: Ireland, the Netherlands, Germany, France, and Luxembourg. “But I have not named them in order of the number of companies moving,” he was quick to add, as the French regulator prefers not to give the impression of competing with other European regulatory authorities, at least officially. “A study of these cases involves consideration of a number of different doctrinary questions, such as management outsourcing and minimal financial resources for an asset management firm,” In the case of management outsourcing, several of the terms governing outsourcing have been the subject of discussion. In France, the FROG initiative offered clarification about the regulations, and made mechanisms more flexible. ESMA has also released sectoral guidelines on this subject, and a cooperation between the FCA, the British regulator, and the EU was signed last week. “From our point of view, a conversation took place that was very reassuring to French asset management firms who outsource their asset management to companies in the United Kingdom.” These companies will be permitted to continue to do so under the same conditions,” says Philippe Sourlas, deputy secretary general and director of asset management. “In case of a no-deal Brexit, British asset management firms will no longer be permitted to sell funds in France itself.” -Philippe Sourlas Sales of funds in France are a subject less well-known to companies. “Today, employees of British companies are permitted to participate in sales of funds in France and the European Union. In the event of a no-deal Brexit, British asset management firms will no longer have the right to sell funds in France themselves. Companies will therefore need to be very viilant about the roles their employees play in European territory. British employees will need not to be coming to France to make sales,” he explains, adding that there is no rule against hoding a press conference to present a fund to a wider audience, for example, since this is not direct investment advising. However, British asset managers are not permitted to meet with people one-on-one, since “that would be equivalent to offering personalised investment advising. … Companies need to be very careful,” Sourlas warned; he feels that this issue is less well-identified by asset management firms. A final major issue is the loss of the European passport for investment products themselves. The main challenge is flows, because sales of a fund which does not have the European passport will no longer be possible, but the AMF points out that assets in stock are also affected. “We consider a fund which was sold in the past with a European passport, in which there are French clients, to continue to be on sale in France, but with no passport. The asset management firm will then be required to contact its French clients to offer them alternatives or give them a way to exit the fund. If it does not do this, it is in neglect of its regulatory obligations. But in volume, this issue has been reduced by two thirds, because there have already been so many company relocations,” Sourlas says. The asset management firm must also pay close attention to the eligibility of the fund for sale to certain investors, particularly in the case of life insurance and unit-linked insurance policies. “Some British funds are licensed for sale as part of life insurance policies, since they are considered to be from the European Union, but they will not be eligible anymore,” the director of asset management says. The same applies to European equity funds which have a large percentage of British equities. “These issues are statistically much more significant,” de Juvigny adds. Tax regulations in the event of a no-deal Brexit will require close attention. The most edifying example cited by the AMF is that of funds eligible for investment from PEA policies. “When the United Kingdom exits the European Union, some funds may no longer meet the minimal required quota of European Union equities to be eligible for PEA,” Sourlas explains. There is therefore a risk of losing the advantageous tax status. But the regulator promises that reasonable time will be given for managers to sort out their situation and to sell off British stocks “in the interests of shareholders.”