«CFA Institute does not teach one-track thinking»


NewsManagers: What does CFA Society France represent today? Jean-Philippe Dorp:We tally around 156,000 CFA charterholders worldwide and more than 320,000 candidates to the CFA Institute exams, of which 4,000 were counted in France over 2018.CFA Society France, which is a non-profit association gathering French CFA charterholders who work in all sorts of finance jobs, has 1,100 members and has been established 20 years ago. France is the continental European country where there are the largest number of candidates to the CFA programme. The CFA Institute announced an all-time high of 227,031 candidates worldwide for the sole exam of June 2018 over the three levels. How do you explain that record? The totalnumber of candidates that have taken a CFA exam last June has risen by 18% in comparision with June 2017. The number of candidates to the Level I was up 25% year-on-year. The programme is still much demanded in theemerging or developing markets, where the number of candidates has doubled over the course of the last five years. The craze for the CFA Institute programme can be explained by both the strength of the proposed course and the accompaniment of the CFA charterholders all along their professionalcarreers, in particular when it comes to training.It also shows the CFA isa worldwide reference. Since 2017,theCFA Institute has opened exam centres in seven new cities.InLagos (Nigeria), in Ulaanbaatar(Mongolia), Barcelona(Spain), Dalian (China), Hangzhou (China), Hyderabad (India) and Rio de Janeiro (Brazil). How does the CFA Institute develop itself in France? We have tied partnerships with some 20 French universities which propose the accompanimentto theCFA formation, often in Master 2, hence enablingstudents to be charterholders at the first or second level of the CFA at the end of their studies. We stress strong demand from employers for CFA, which is not only a standard of expertise but also a standard of ethic. CFA charterholders must commit themseleves to respect the ethical and good conduct principles of the CFA. Is demand growing because of regulation rising? There is no direct correlation between the CFA certification and existing regulation in France. The AMF has its own certification ans there is no obligation for finance professionals to follow a continuous course on competences and knowledge.That being said, it is likely that regulation rising may push employers to recruit better formed employees, that are ever more capable of understanding and mastering regulation and how it is evolving. For a sales person working in asset management, it is becoming crucial to earn the certification in order to stand out of the crowd. It is also the case for a number of other jobs such as company treasurers or auditors. Are the results of the CFA exams stable? They are relatively stable. In June 2018,43 % of the 79 507 candidates at the level I and45 % of the 64 216 candidates at the level II have passed. How does the CFA programme follow the evolutions of the asset management industry? There is a group of experts missioned by the CFA Institute that analyse asset management practices in order for the programme to remain in adequation with the needs and the challenges seen in finance. In2019, new sessions on fintechs and machine learning have been introduced and other contents have been updated. The programme evolves but remains very diversified.It coversa large spectrum of theoriesand tools. And most importantly, the CFA does not teach a one-track thinking approach. You refer to recent commentson the CFA madeby H2O Asset Management’s CEO Bruno Crastes. Is he right or wrong when he said last November during the Natixis Global Summit that «CFA charterholders all do the same andyou have to do the opposite to what they do to create value»? The point that is being raised here is the diversity of theories and investment strategies. The CFA Institutedelivers a programme that isexacting, very rich in terms of theoritical and practical learning. It covers market strategies and theories that are often opposed such as the efficient market and the non-efficient market theories. The CFAprogramme encompasses active and passive management, quantitative and discretionary management. Candidates spend a lot of time on both fundamental and technical analysis. Crastes said «many active managers follow the steps of the modern portfolio construction theory because that is what you learn at the CFA, a theory that relies on the hypothesis correlations werestable but they are not."Is that justified? Once again we do not teach a one-track thinking approach and we do not give any instruction to our members. They have all the tools they need to manageassets in an optimal manner. It is up to them to use these tools, to develop their own strategies, to implement them in regards to their market expectations but also in regards to the mandates that they are being given by investors. We come back to the notion of ethic, which forms around 15% of the CFA programme over the three years. Every year, our members commit themselves to respect ethical and professional standards designed by the CFA. It aims at ensuring the continuity of the market and the investors’ protection. That said, we let our members totally free to use or notthe tools and the theories presented during the course. IsCrastes a CFA charterholder? The Natixis group is the third largest employer, asset manager, of CFA Society France members. If Natixis gets this status, I assume CFA charterholders create value, by optimising savings allocation and providing savings services that fit with the needs of investors. To answer your question, Crastes has not mentioned in his biography whether he is a CFA charterholder or not. We have not discussed yet but it is possible we may exchange views. A priority of CFA Society France is the role and position of women in asset management. What do you do concretely on this matter? The role of women in asset management is an important topic as diversity is a strength first and foremost.In 2018, almost 42% of the candidates worldwide were women. In France, this share was 38% last year. We observe a continuing increase of female candidates across the world and at a national level.The board of CFA Society France, elected by our members, is composed of women at 40%. We put in place various initiatives likeWomen in Management in order to debate on opportunities for an organisation to promote women’s position and role. Women are also deciding of the savings allocation. We are passing from the white-haired mature man to the woman, emerging from the millennnials generation. Women represent between 30% and 40% of women are decision-makers when it comes to savings allocation and if in the industry, we are not able to provide offers that correspond to that population, it means we would not have been able to address these needs. Diversity and the industry’s perspectives are at stake. The hire of women forhigh-responsibility jobs is a factor of success of a company and must be presented as such to draw more women in the asset management universe. How are ESG and SRI integrated to the program? Both thematics have beenenshrined in the programme for severalyears through a description of approaches and new tools such as green bonds. We organise conferences regularly. For instance, we have set up sessions with Proxinvest, a conference on pension funds governance with former Erafp’s CEO Philippe Desfossés.We have also invitedCaroline Le Meaux from Ircantec to discuss expectations from pension funds towards asset managers regarding ESG. Lastly the theme has been highlighted during the European Investment Conference we organised last November. We have also conducted a survey on the use of ESG criteria by CFA members in their investment processes in September 2018.France ranks second behind the Netherlands for the integration of ESG criteria. However, our members want to use those criteria by themselves and do not want any regulation to impose their use. We are set to organise a conference mid-March on the topic of gaining access to extra-financial information.Quantity is already there but quality is missing. What will be the role ofCFA Society France vis-à-vis theBrexit? In our 2019 priorities, the development of career paths is a matter of importance for our members but also what is at stake for the Paris financial place and for research. We have implemented a committee dedicated to support CFA members who settle in Paris. We will organise a conference in April regarding this topic. The aim of this initiative is tobetter integrate these members, to advise them in order for them to adapt themelves rapidly to the habits of the French market. It can be seen as comeback"mentoring».