Ex-HSBC AM CEO and Goldman Sachs directors found boutique


A new asset management playerlaunched itself in Paris, NewsManagers can reveal. The company is named Arvella Investments and was built throughout 2018.Its activity, modified on 22 January 2019, is asset management and asset advisory for third parties encompassing collective investment fundmanagement and management of mandates. A trio has established the boutique including two formermanaging directorsat Goldman Sachs, Benoît Mercereau and Bruno De Kegel, and the ex-CEO of HSBC Asset Management and Aviva Investors, Alain Dromer. Mercereau and Dromer co-founded Akademia Investments in London in2016. The company is aimed at helping foundations to invest by pooling resources, hence following the example of American insitutions such as The Investment Fund for Foundations (TIFF). Mercereau headed Goldman Sachs’ multi-assets investment unit from November2008 to February 2016and before that, worked as deputy head of investment research on FX and emerging markets fixed income. His colleagueDe Kegel spent 22years at Goldman Sachs International where he held roles ofmanaging director, head of group portfolio management for EMEA and Asia regions as well as head of private wealth. Third co-founder Dromer had been CEO of Aviva Investors from 2007 to 2012 and of HSBC AM from 2001 to 2007. He is an independent non-executive director at the board of Santander and also sat until last year on the board ofMoody’s Investor Service (Europe). Having begun his career at the Treasury department of the French ministry of Finance in 1981,Dromer also worked as CEO of CCF Asset Management and director of capital markets at La Compagnie Financière Edmond de Rothschild (now Edmond de Rothschild). According to a job ad published by Arvella Investments last June for a role of third-party fund analyst involved in manager selection, the firm seeks to provide world-class wealth management while delivering a positive society impact. The company said it was donating a meaningful part of its profits to charities and also that it would ask the Autorité des marchés financiers for an asset management license. Moreover, NewsManagers observed Arvella Investments has been registered among the companies supervised by theFinancial Conduct Authority since 21 January 2019, operating under the brand Arvella Investments Limited.