Pimco’s Bodereau «quite skeptical» on cross-border banking consolidation


Philippe Bodereau works ashead of Financials and oversees the pan-European credit research unit in the London offices of US-headquartered bond manager Pimco. He is also a portfolio manager on the $6.5bn GIS Capital Securities Fund, focused on financials.Philippe Bodereau and his team have been profiledonL’Agefi Hebdo(in French only). NewsManagers: What is your take on the European banking sector consolidation? Philippe Bodereau:I remain quite skeptical regarding the consolidation of the European banking sector. First a European banking union is still far from achieved. Such will to harmonise the banking industry in Europe exists at the ECB but at a regulatory level, everything is done to prevent this from happening. Currently we find ourselves with a very incomplete banking union. Despite the Single Supervisory Mechanism, local regulators still weigh much on decisions. Consequently pan-European banking groups operating on several domestic markets in Europe are penalised as they must have capital in each of these countries. And the FSB’s rules setting the SIFI status apply as well. For instance, Fortis is considered as a French bank that lends money in Belgium. It raises its ‘Sifiness’ but it also penalises it regardingregulatory capital requirements. Another reason why I am skeptical about the consolidation is that the discussions over the European deposit guarantee schemes remain at a standstill. This topic has been buried politically. NM: Therefore the banking consolidation in Europe is at a standstill too. PB:In the current context, it remains hard for a banking group to communicate on eventual consolidation operations at a cross-border level. But banks’ mergers and acquisitions at a local level, like in Germany,Italy and Spain, can occur. We have also stressed a number of banks that have folded away some of the markets where they were operating. NM:What is your stance on Italian debt and how does it affect your current exposure to Italian financials? PB:We have been underweight sovereign debtfor a few months even ifin parallel, market volatility has opened interesting opportunities on senior banking debt of Italian banks, whose spreads have enlarged by more than 300bps in 2018. Italian public debt is being held locally at 70% and the cacophonic communication of the governement has a negative influenceon markets. The anti-euro rhetoric that has been put aside officially remains in the minds of Salvini’s government. Now the Italian governmentclaims it remainscommitted to the euro. It acts like a bank facing deposit leakage. When you need to reassure markets, you admit that you have a trust issue.Market reaction towards Italy has been quite violent. But it is not necessarily justified as Italy is not Greece. It has not been to war against the EU with huge deficits. Italy’s real issue has been a very low growth since more than 15 years. Italian public debt is being held locally at 70% and the cacophonic communication of the governement has a negative influenceon markets. NM: What about British banks with Brexit looming? PB:From a credit point of view, British banks are almost topping the rankings as to capital ratios, assets quality and profitability.Since the Brexit poll, they have been trading at levels close to that of peripherals. It seems exaggerated to us. As long as a deal is found between the UK and the EU, 2019 will be a good year for British financials. But in the unlikely case of a no-deal Brexit,we will find ourselves with a terrible mark-to-market.If the rules of the World Trade Organisation apply in the UK after the implementation of the Brexit,the UK may face a recession of 1 to 2%, that would be annoying but not enough todeteriorate British banks’ balance sheets significantly. NM: A few banks such as Van Lanschot and Volksbank have cancelled their AT1 issuances last moment, what does it mean to you? Do you think the AT1 market will reach a critical size by 2020? PB:We are focusing primarilyon large systemic banks and we do not think AT1sare an appropriate instrument for tier-3 banks. In a such volatile environment, it is not surprising that such issuers do not have access to the market. We estimate that the AT1 market will grow by around 10% in Europe to stabilise at around €160bn. Deutsche is a bank that has beengoing throughan existential crisis for several years. NM: What will be the impact of the ECB stopping its QE on the European banking sector? PB:This has been anticipated by markets since several months and we have already stressed spreads have widened significantly in particular in the euro investment grade and high yield corporate bonds. That includes banking issuers that have also suffered from the resurgence of systemic risks like Italy or Brexit. In our view, the non-renewal of the TLTRO would be more an issue than the end of the ECB’s QE, in particular for some Italian banks. NM: What is your stance on merger rumours around Commerzbank andDeutsche Bank? PB: Deutsche is a bank thathas been goingthroughan existential crisis for several years. If its balance sheet has been cleaned by its former CEO John Cryan, as a decisive act,via a large capital raise in 2017 among others, Deutsche’s profitability remains extremely low. That is reflecting in the abysmal performance of Deutsche shares.If no miracle cure exists to address the structural issues of the German banking sector that remains led by non-economic players such as savings institutions, cooperatives and Landesbanks,we believe that a merger would establish Deutsche on a more stable base as retail bank and would reduce its dependence to corporate andinvestment banking activities where it has failed against large US banks.