Hermes IM opens branch in Ireland


Hermes Investment Management is becoming the next asset manager to found a company in Ireland, Hermes Fund Managers Ireland Limited (HFM Ireland), “in response to risks presented by Brexit,” and as part of expansion plans in Europe at the company. As part of the move, Hermes has recruited Carol Mahon as head for Ireland, and Aoifinn Devitt as chief investment officer for Ireland. The two professionals will be based in Dublin, once the firm is operational. Mahon joins from Fidelity International, where she worked for 17 years, most recently as CEO of FIL Life Insurance Ireland DAC. In her newly-created position at Hermes IM, Mahon will be responsible for oversight, development and management at HFM Ireland and all of branches in the European Economic Area, supporting the management at Hermes. She will report to Harriet Steel. Devitt, for her part, was previously chief investment officer at the Chicago Policemen’s Annunity and Benefit Fund, a pension fund with USD2.6bn in assets. Other recruitments are in progress in Ireland, including for a head of compliance. “Since the 2016 referendum, we have been prepared for a hard Brexit,” says Saker Nusseibeh, CEO of Hermes Investment Management. “We saw very early on that we needed to develop appropriate emergency plans in the absence of certainty, so as to ensure for ourselves to the greatest extent possible that we would remain able to manage the assets of our clients in line with their expectations,” he says. The choice of Ireland comes in light of a historic activity in the country. “Hermes has had management activities and relationships with service providers in Ireland for 10 years, since our UCITS range is domiciled there,” explains Nusseibeh. “Because of that, and our European growth, we have taken Brexit as an occasion to build our presence in Ireland, with the creation of an asset management firm to lead management of the European product range from Hermes, and to facilitate distribution to European clients.”