Brexit: Fidelity adds portfolio management to Luxembourg arm licence


The licence of FIL (Luxembourg) S.A., the Luxembourg-based arm of asset management firm Fidelity International, has been extended on 5 December 2018, NewsManagers can reveal. FIL (Luxembourg) S.A. hasadded the activity of portfolio management as well as the status of private portfolio managers to its existing licence with the authorisation ofthe Luxembourg financial market authority CSSF which confirmed the agreement took effect last 5 December. This addition is of importance in the current context of Brexit-related moves of assets managers with a strong base in the United Kingdom. Fidelity International has confirmed toNewsManagers that eventual client serviceissues that could result fromBrexit uncertaintieshad been a key element in their decision to extend the licence of FIL (Luxembourg) S.A. «We have recently decided to extend our MiFID licence of our existing MiFID-compliant entity in Luxembourg. This extension enablesit to provide portfolio management services to clients in the eventof specific mandates.Firstly, in the event of European clients that would prefersecuringa contract with a European entity rather than with a British entity for portfolio management services - in particular in the perspectiveof Brexit. Secondly, in the eventof EU-based clients who would face issues to conclude a contract with a British asset manager in the wake of Brexit.Nothing indicates for now that it could be the case. Rather we are waiting for the future trade agreement (FTA) between the United Kingdom and the European Union that will determine if British entities will still be able to provide portfolio management services to European citizens, whatever the means, or not,» Fidelity International told NewsManagers. The firm added: «A few EU-based clients could take this option and secure their contracts with the Luxembourg-based entity in their own preparation forBrexit. Hence we are positioned to face an eventual complex scenario if the event thefree-trade agreement or the failure of the negotiationsprevents British entities frommanaging EU-based clients assetsin the future. The extension of our licence in Luxembourg is simply a matter of good organisation and is not related to the management of Fidelity’sLuxembourg-domiciled Sicav that will not be impacted by the Brexit.» According to Fidelity International’s data, some 175 employees work in the company’s Luxembourg offices. FIL (Luxembourg) SA focuses mainly on fund accounting, product development & marketing, client service, compliance and risk, sales, audit and human resources. Fidelity’s branches in London, Kronberg and Dublin are also authorised for portfolio management.